China's military warns against growing threat from Taiwan 'separatists' Beijing (CNN)China has warned against what it describes as a growing threat from "separatists" in Taiwan, and said it would not rule out using force against the self-governed island Beijing regards as part of its territory. In a national defense white paper released Wednesday, China took aim at what it considers pro-independence or separatist forces in the far western region of Xinjiang, Tibet and Taiwan, claiming they were a threat to national security and social stability. In particular, the paper accused Taiwan's democratically-elected government of "pursuing a path of separatism" by pushing for "gradual independence," warning that China "must and will be reunited." Taiwan has been governed separately from mainland China since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949, when the defeated Nationalist government fled to the island. Beijing has repeatedly called for "reunification" with Taiwan. According to the white paper, Taiwan's government under President Tsai Ing-wen is "intensifying hostility and confrontation and borrowing the strength of foreign influence." The language regarding Taiwan in the white paper -- "China's National Defense in the New Era" -- was noticeably stronger compared to the last major defense report in 2015, which only fleetingly mentioned the island. The white paper, the first such major defense policy document since Chinese President Xi Jinping began his second term in 2017, calls for greater modernization of the country's military, while emphasizing China's goal of peaceful development. China's defense budget is one of the largest in the world, totaling just over $151 billion in 2017, according to the paper -- which is still far below that of the United States. At a press conference Wednesday, Defense Ministry spokesman Wu Qian reiterated the paper's central points, declaring Taiwan independence a threat to the sovereignty of China. "To seek Taiwan independence will get nowhere and China never allow any part of its territory to be separated," he said. When asked about mass protests in the semi-autonomous Chinese city of Hong Kong in recent weeks, Wu said that the military were watching the situation closely. He then reminded journalists of the Hong Kong law that allows the local government to request assistance in maintaining public order from the People's Liberation Army garrison in the city, but did not suggest troops should or would be deployed in the near future. US 'undermining global stability' The release of the defense white paper comes after an unusually long four-day stopover by Taiwan's Tsai to the US in early July -- en route to the Caribbean -- the latest sign of warming ties between Taipei and Washington despite intense hostility from Beijing. China criticized the US for its recent decision to sell more than $2 billion in tanks and anti-air missiles to Taiwan. It also accused the US of undermining "global stability," while saying international strategic competition was on the rise overall. "(The US) has provoked and intensified competition among major countries, significantly increased its defense expenditure, pushed for additional capacity in nuclear, outer space, cyber and missile defense," the white paper said. When asked about the recent confirmation of China hawk Mark Esper as the new US Defense Secretary, Chinese military spokesman Wu simply wished him the best and struck an optimistic tone on China-US military ties during Esper's tenure. "But I want to emphasize ... that China's sovereignty, security and developmental interests are not to be encroached," he added. One change to the 2019 report, compared to 2015, is the tight grip that President Xi has over China's military, with copious references appearing in the white paper to the "new era" of Xi's signature ideology. "Guided by Xi Jinping's thinking on strengthening the military, China's national defense in the new era will stride forward along its own path to build a stronger military," the report concluded. Steven Jiang reported from Beijing. Ben Westcott reported from Hong Kong. Why China is challenging Australia for influence over the Pacific Islands (CNN)With beaches fringed with palm trees and pristine waters full of tropical fish, many Pacific Islands are the kinds of remote places you would expect to see on Instagram. But for China and Australia, these tiny islands have become the center of an emerging power struggle. Foreign involvement is nothing new for these islands, which collectively control an area of ocean bigger than Russia. Colonial governments ruled some of the 14 Pacific Island nations over different periods of time. They all now govern themselves but, due to poor economic growth, this is one of the world's most aid-dependent regions. For decades, Australia has been the biggest donor of that aid. In many ways, that makes sense -- Australia is the richest nation in Oceania and nearly 206,700 people claimed Pacific Island ancestry in its 2016 census. As the country's Prime Minister Scott Morrison puts it: "This is our patch." But in recent years, China has emerged as a major player in the region, too. The Pacific Islands are home to fewer than 10 million people -- slightly less than the population of Sweden -- are thousands of miles from Beijing and have a combined GDP of about $33.77 billion, less than 1% of China's total GDP. But that hasn't stopped the money flooding in, building bridges, roads and an airport. In Australia, some analysts fear their country's influence is under threat. "Australia is certainly very worried about the level of investment (from China)," said Michael O'Keefe, an expert on Pacific foreign relations at Melbourne's La Trobe University. Prime Minister Morrison has made the Pacific Islands more of a priority than his predecessors since he came to power last year. As he announced a 2 billion Australian dollar ($1.5 billion) infrastructure fund for the region in November, he said: "Australia cannot take its influence in the Southwest Pacific for granted. "And sadly, I think too often we have." So why is China investing so much in this part of the world? First thing's first: What's China doing in the South Pacific? In many ways, China is doing things differently. In the past, Australia has taken what some see as a paternalistic approach in the Pacific Islands, investing in health, education and governance -- the things it thinks the nations need. But the approach hasn't necessarily had the desired impact. Although Australia -- and other countries -- have been investing aid in the region for years, economic growth is slow. That's partly due to the geographic isolation of the islands and their small populations, but has been worsened by their vulnerability to climate change and natural disasters. In most Pacific Island countries, more than 20% of the population is unable to afford all their basic needs, according to the World Bank. That has prompted questions about the effectiveness of aid. In papers in 2003 and 2010, Australian economist Helen Hughes said that "aid has failed in the Pacific," because it undercut the private sector, impacting employment and economic growth. But Australian economist Matthew Dornan and Jonathan Pryke, director of the Pacific Islands Program at the Lowy Institute, argued in 2017 that aid has raised "living standards beyond what they would be without aid." The Lowy Institute is a non-profit Australian think tank set up in 2003, which receives half of its funding from donations. China, by contrast, is asking Pacific Island countries where they most need investment. That has tended to result in Beijing funding large-scale infrastructure projects. Data from the Lowy Institute on the eight countries where both Australia and China are investing shows that in all but one of the nations, China's biggest spend was on an infrastructure project, while all but one of Australia's top projects were non-infrastructure. In Papua New Guinea, for instance, China completed a $85 million road upgrade in 2017. Meanwhile, Australia has so far spent $219 million on an initiative to deliver essential drugs such as vaccines, and increase health education, especially around the spread of HIV. In 2018, Australia's Minister for International Development and the South Pacific, Concetta Fierravanti-Wells, blasted China for funding "useless buildings" that islands couldn't pay back, but didn't refer to any projects specifically. China lodged a formal diplomatic protest against the minister, calling her remarks "full of prejudice and bias." There's another difference between the two players: how the money is delivered. While Australia gives its aid through grants with no obligation for repayment, most of China's spending is in the form of loans, according to the Lowy Institute. Many of the Chinese loans were taken between 2006 and 2010, said the Lowy Institute's Jonathan Pryke. This was during a "gold rush" period when China was increasingly lending to countries around the world, including in Africa. The loans usually have a grace period of five to 10 years, according to Pryke. So far, there's no record of any Pacific Island countries paying China back, Lowy Institute research found. Earlier this year, the US Ambassador to Australia, Arthur B. Culvahouse Jr., described China's spending in the Pacific as "payday loan" diplomacy -- intentionally getting countries to take on unsustainable debts in order to buy political leverage. US Vice President Mike Pence has echoed his sentiment. But the data doesn't back up these claims. Of the 14 Pacific Island nations, six are rated as being at a high risk of debt distress by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), meaning they are likely to default on their loans, and three are at a moderate risk. But last year, Australian researchers Rohan Fox and Matthew Dornan found that while China is the biggest bilateral lender in the region, Tonga was the only country where Chinese lending dominated. In several other countries, multilateral lending was the main source of debt. Furthermore, a recent paper by independent, US-based research provider Rhodium Group found that when China renegotiated its debt with over-leveraged countries, it was usually to the advantage of the borrower. But the authors cautioned that might not be true in the future: "Beijing could still use loan renegotiations to advance foreign and domestic policy objectives." Many countries have welcomed China's investment. Vanuatu, which received an $80 million loan to build a wharf, thanked the Chinese government for funding projects that no other donor would help with. On Monday, PNG's Prime Minister James Marape said his country was open to investors from all countries. "Whether they are from (China), or Australia, or right across the world, is inconsequential and irrelevant to us," he told reporters. So why is China investing in the Pacific Islands? That's the billion-dollar question: Why does China want to pour money into isolated countries, with small economies that might not be able to pay back their debts? If you ask China, it says its spending is benign. "China, based on equal, mutually beneficial, open and sustainable principles, keeps providing genuine assistance to Pacific Island countries without any political attachment," a Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson told CNN in a faxed comment, adding that China had improved the livelihood of Pacific Island people and "won wide acclaim." "Is China's assistance good or bad? Is it a 'debt trap' or a 'pie in the sky'? The island countries and the people have the final say," the spokesperson said. There are also sound economic reasons for China to be in the South Pacific, including sourcing raw materials. Many of the South Pacific islands are rich with resources such as timber, minerals and fish. Since 2011, Beijing has invested more in Papua New Guinea (PNG) -- which is home to gold, nickel mines, liquified natural gas and timber forests -- than any other Pacific Island. It might also want to help support ethnically Chinese people who live in those countries, said James Batley, an Asia-Pacific expert at Australian National University. Statistics on the number of Chinese living in the South Pacific are scarce, but in 2006, the South Pacific islands were already home to an estimated 80,000 Chinese. Some were descended from Chinese traders who settled in the region in the 1800s, while others migrated more recently to work on Chinese construction projects. In the 2000s, anti-Chinese sentiment resulted in riots in the Solomon Islands, PNG and Tonga, where a fatal unrest prompted Beijing to send a charter plane to expatriate around 200 Chinese nationals. The issues behind the riots have differed. In PNG, which suffers from high unemployment, for instance, the hostility was towards Chinese business owners. Beijing has tried to improve local relations, changing tactics from bringing over its own construction workers to hiring more local staff, said University of the South Pacific's Gounder. Then, of course, there are the diplomatic reasons China might want to be in the Pacific. OK, so what are the diplomatic reasons? First, there's the issue of Taiwan, which Beijing claims sovereignty over. Only 16 nations and the Holy See officially recognize Taiwan as an independent state, and six of them are in the South Pacific. For years, China has been attempting to win over Taiwan's few remaining allies and encourage them to accept its "One China" principle. Of the six, three have strong ties to the US, which has what it describes as a "robust unofficial relationship" to Taiwan, an island of 23.5 million people. Taiwan also invests in the South Pacific -- it has spent $215.87 million between 2011 and 2017, compared with China's $1.21 billion, according to Lowy Institute data. Papua New Guinea, where both Taiwan and China invest, downgraded its diplomatic relations with Taiwan last year, which Taipei said was due to pressure from Beijing. The Solomon Islands, which recognizes Taiwan, is expected to decide whether it will cut ties with Taiwan in the next few months. The country's former Prime Minister Gordon Darcy Lilo said changing course could boost investment to the country. Taiwan has invested there, China is its top trading partner, according to a 2018 report from the US-China Economic and Security Review Commission. There are other reasons why China would want a Pacific Island nation on its side. Even though the entire population of the 14 Pacific Island nations is around the same size as a Chinese city, China still has the same voting power as a Pacific Island at the United Nations General Assembly. Pacific Island nations can be powerful friends despite their small size. What else is at stake? The islands could serve as destinations for future military bases. In April 2018, the Sydney Morning Herald reported that officials from China and Vanuatu were in talks about setting up a permanent military presence on the island. Both Beijing and Vanuatu denied the reports. A Chinese military base would be seen as a problem in the United States, which has had a presence in the South Pacific since World War II. The US still has military outposts on islands in this region, such as on Guam and the Marshall Islands. The islands running from Japan to Taiwan and the Philippines, and from Japan to Guam and Palau form lines known as the first and second island chain. Academics and military theorists see them as a way for the US to contain China from gaining a strategic position in the region. A 2018 US-China Economic and Security Review Commission report found that a Chinese military base or facility in the South Pacific could prevent US military access to the region -- and affect key partners, New Zealand and Australia. "Such a development could expand China's monitoring and surveillance capabilities in the region, helping Beijing mitigate US military presence in the region," the report authors wrote. Chinese bases in the South Pacific would also raise security concerns for Australia. Three of Australia's five main maritime trade routes pass through the Pacific. Even if China didn't threaten these routes, its presence could expose them to the possibility of future issues, which in turn could have serious implications for Australia's economy. As Pryke puts it, a Chinese base in the South Pacific would likely "profoundly change" the way Australia looked at national defense and national security. In a Lowy Institute poll this year, 55% of those surveyed said if China opened a military base in a Pacific Island country, that would be a critical threat to the nation's vital interests. Australia and the US have military plans of their own. Last year, the US, Australia and Papua New Guinea announced they would partner to redevelop a naval base on PNG's Manus Island, best known for a controversial and now shuttered migrant detention center. During World War II, the island was home to a Japanese base that was captured and taken over by the Allies. Pacific Islands Private Sector Organization board chair Stephen Lyon, who lives in the Cook Islands, believes most Pacific Islands don't want to be further militarized. But Fiji-based poverty and growth researcher Gounder said if there was a mutually beneficial deal, he didn't think South Pacific islands would say no to a Chinese base -- or an Australian one, for that matter. "I totally don't rule out a military base in any Pacific Island country," he said. What is Australia worried about? To China, its investment in the Pacific Islands is small compared with the scale of its flagship multibillion Belt and Road Initiative. Beijing invested over $1.2 billion in the 14 South Pacific nations between 2011 and 2017, but last year alone, it pledged $60 billion in aid, investment and loans to Africa. In contrast, in the same period, Australia spent $6.3 billion in aid in the South Pacific, making the region one of the main beneficiaries of Australian aid. Australia has good reason to make that investment. Since the 1950s, it has been part of an agreement with the US and New Zealand, making it responsible for the security of the Pacific Islands. If a Pacific Island country was to encounter a crisis, there is an expectation that Australia -- as a good neighbor -- would assist. And that means Australia has a lot more to lose. Any conflict or crisis could increase refugee flows to Australia or a need for troops to be deployed. After a period of ethnic violence in the Solomon Islands, Australia spent an estimated 2.8 billion Australian dollars ($1.96 billion) on a 14-year mission to stabilize the nation. "We are essentially the superpower in the Pacific and it's very important that we play our role," then-Australian Justice Minister Michael Keenan said in 2017, when the mission ended. Pacific Islands Private Sector Organization's Lyon said that while it was true that neither country was entirely altruistic, Australia had long term partnerships in the region. "China has a very specific geostrategic focus in the region," he said. When asked whether Australia needed to be concerned about China's increased role, and why Australia was stepping up efforts in the region, an Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade spokesperson said it was in the country's national interests to promote stability, security and prosperity in the Pacific. "The Pacific has significant investment needs, and Australia welcomes all investment that supports sustainable development in line with the priorities and ambitions of Pacific countries, is delivered transparently, and does not impose heavy debt burdens," the spokesperson said. What does the Pacific think about all this? While Taiwan-aligned Nauru has publicly pushed back on China's involvement, many Pacific Island countries have embraced the additional investment. "We are indeed very grateful," Fijian politician Ratu Epeli Nailatikau said earlier this year. Australia's aid spend in the Pacific Islands dropped off in 2013, according to Lowy Institute data. But China's involvement has been a catalyst for traditional Pacific Island partners, such as Australia and New Zealand, to increase their involvement in the region. Morrison's $1.5 billion "step up" infrastructure investment program for the Pacific Islands was a "direct response" to push out Chinese influence and maintain Australia's position as the primary partner in the region, said La Trobe University's O'Keefe. Cook Islands-based Lyon said that, ultimately, the Pacific Islands are autonomous states that direct their own foreign policy -- the idea that outside powers might be able to influence them, as they had during their colonial pasts, was "old-fashioned." "The Pacific Islands are open to money wherever it comes from," he said. "At the moment, I think the Pacific feels like it's getting something that benefits us."  Tencent-backed 'Top Gun' cuts Taiwan flag from Tom Cruise's jacket Hong Kong (CNN)A new trailer for the sequel of 1986 blockbuster "Top Gun" is stirring up controversy because it shows Tom Cruise putting on the iconic bomber jacket he wore in the original film — but with two key changes. In the Paramount Pictures trailer of "Top Gun: Maverick," two jacket patches that had originally shown the Japanese and Taiwanese flags appear to have been swapped out and replaced with two ambiguous symbols in the same color scheme — leading to social media speculation that the swap was done to appease China. Several Twitter users quickly pointed out that Chinese tech giant Tencent (TCEHY) is one of Paramount's partners on the movie, which is slated to release next summer. Tencent said in December that its subsidiary Tencent Pictures is "an investor and co-marketer" of the highly anticipated sequel. Paramount Pictures, which is owned by Viacom (VIA), and Tencent Pictures did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Chinese and Japanese relations have long been fraught, with tensions flaring in recent years over disputed islands in the East China Sea. China and Taiwan also have a complex relationship — Taiwan has been self-governed since separating from China in 1949, but Beijing still views the island as its territory, and for decades has tried to threaten or cajole it into rejoining the mainland. As part of this campaign, China has pressured companies, airlines, and governments worldwide to refer to Taiwan as a Chinese territory and to switch diplomatic allegiances from Taiwan to China. The campaign has been largely successful, with major airlines and companies like United Airlines (UAL), Delta Airlines (DAL), Marriott (MAR), American Express (AXP), and Goldman Sachs (GS) falling in line. Now, social media users are accusing Paramount of following suit. "A film glorifying the US military, bowing to Chinese sensitivities," one person wrote on Twitter. Another called the swapped flags an example of "more tools of Chinese soft power coercion." The original 1986 "Top Gun" helped make Tom Cruise a star. In the new trailer, his danger-seeking naval aviator hasn't changed much. He's content with his life as captain — even if, as his superior points out, he should be an admiral by now — and living on the edge. In a surprise appearance at Comic Con in San Diego last week, Cruise debuted the trailer before a crowd of cheering fans and said, "34 years ago I made a movie... For me Top Gun is about competition, it is about family, it is about sacrifice, it's about heroism and it's about aviation." Tencent Pictures has also been affiliated with other popular Paramount films, including "Wonder Woman," "Terminator: Dark Fate," and "Warcraft, Kong: Skull Island," according to the company.  'Cats' is a disaster, but cats aren't: The best cat cafes to show your solidarity with our beloved companions Goat cafes, a piglet cafe, even loneliness-curing Moomin cafes. The world of the weird cafe has moved on from cats. And yet, while some of these obscure cafes grab headlines for a few days and then vanish, cat cafes have proliferated around the world, to become if not the most novel, certainly the most enduring craze when it comes to themed coffee houses. With the "Cats" movie trailer horrifying the internet, it's safe to say our beloved felines are trending yet again. German philosopher Albert Schweitzer reportedly once said: "The only escape from the miseries of life is music and cats." But if seeing the live action adaptation of the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical doesn't sound like a welcome escape, might we suggest a cat cafe visit? Started in Taiwan over 20 years ago with a cafe called Cat Flower Garden (now called Café Dogs & Cats), the concept was most enthusiastically embraced in Japan. Today, there are more cat cafes in Japan than anywhere else in the world -- around 150 at the last count. Since the 1998 opening of the first cat cafe, there's been a storm of cat cafe opening around the world. You could say the concept is cat-ching on. The United States has more than 125 cat cafes, and some of them serve more than coffee and cat cuddles. There are now a slew of cat cafes in London, including one where guests can partake in high tea with the furry creatures. For about $33 per person, Lady Dinah's offers a 90-minute package involving cakes, scones, two drinks and, of course, quality time with the cats. Cat cafes offering purr-fect coffee breaks exist all over Europe now as well, and India's first cat cafe has been open for nearly five years. Australia, Colombia and South Africa have all embraced this particular cat life as well. Anita Loughran, owner of Cat Cafe Melbourne, was so inspired by a trip to Japan that it was the motivation for the Melbourne cafe, which opened in 2014. "It's a place where animal and cat lovers can mingle, socialize and be comfortable in a quiet environment that reflects their interests," Loughran says. Cat cafe 101 For the uninitiated, a cat cafe doesn't sound too complicated. It's a regular cafe that happens to have cats walking, or lying, around. But there are nuances that distinguish this kind of cafe from others. You often need to book before you arrive, because: A) the cats are liable to walk out as you walk in, and B) the ratio of people to cats needs to be controlled. "We now have a booking system, because 20,000 people wanted to come into a 30-seat cafe all at the same time," says Lauren Pears, founder of London's Lady Dinah's. Sanitation and health issues also need to be considered and have put some people off. "Who wants cat hair everywhere? That would gross me out," says Diana Mullin, a noncustomer from Vancouver. But Loughran says there's nothing to worry about: "As the cats are completely separate from the cafe, this is not an issue. And if people still have their concerns, they should actually visit a cat cafe first. We would not be able to open if we weren't super hygienic." Most cafes also have a look-but-don't-grab policy to minimize catty stress and potential clawing of customers. Grabbing is never recommending, but many cafes encourage gently petting and caressing and place the emphasis on this interaction as opposed to the food and drink program. The price of admission to Osaka's Cat of Liberty, for examples, includes a hot or cold beverage, but the drinks are an afterthought. It's the soothing cat time that matters. Feline good After all, the idea is that these cafes provide an almost therapeutic area to chill, as Café Neko owner Takako Ishimitsu in Vienna says. Though she advises any mother visiting the cafe check her pram before leaving: Some of the cats can inadvertently turn stowaway, having sought out the warm softness of a baby carrier. Thomas Leidner, owner of the Cafe Katzentempel in Munich, says: "The popularity of these cafes is probably due to the fact that many people are not allowed, or are disinclined to have pets in the city, yet they occasionally feel the need for closeness to an animal. "Life today is busy and hectic, so offering an oasis of calm, where you can relax over a drink and enjoy (vegan) snacks, is important to us." Pears agrees. "I think a lot of our patrons just enjoy coming to play with them. We also find they tend to make conversation with other patrons. The cafe has a nice community feel to it." "What could be better than a black Americano, a good book, and a cat curled up beside you (even better if it's on your lap)?" says Sandi from the UK, one of the trend's enthusiastic fans. "Bliss! The only issue I have is struggling to leave." And so the cat cafe continues to spread across the globe. Cat cafes around the world Budapest, Hungary: CatCafe Budapest, Revay utca 3; +36 2 0617 3301 Cape Town, South Africa: Cat Heaven, 5 Bright Street, Somerset West, Cape Town; +27 83 357 2527 Dubai, UAE: Ailuromania Cat Cafe, 844 Jumeirah, Dubai; +971 4 321 6661 London: Lady Dinah's Cat Emporium, 152-154 Bethnal Green Road, Shoreditch;+44 (0) 207 729 0953 Madrid: La Gatoteca, Calle Argumosa 28; +34 9 1622 5831 Medellin, Colombia: La Gateria, #74d-59 a, Tv. 32b #74d-1, Medellín, Antioquia, Colombia Melbourne: Cat Cafe Melbourne, 30 Guildford Lane, Melbourne VIC 3000; 0491003583 Mumbai, India: Cat Cafe Studio, Bungalow No, 63, Harminder Singh Rd, Aram Nagar Part 1, Versova, Andheri West, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400061, India; +91 82914 90907 Munich, Germany: Café Katzentempel, Türkenstr. 29 80799 Munich +1 089-20061249 New York: Brooklyn Cat Cafe, 76 Montague Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201 +(347) 946-2286 New York: Koneko, 26 Clinton St. New York, NY 10002 Osaka, Japan: Cat of Liberty, 2 Chome-17-10 Nishishinsaibashi, Chuo Ward, Osaka, 542-0086, Japan; +81 6-6214-2020 Paris, France: Le Cafe des Chats, 9, rue Sedaine, 75011 Paris +33 9 7353 3581 Tokyo: Nyafe Melange, 1-7-13 Ebisu, Shibuya-ku; +91 3 5449 4024 Vienna, Austria: Cafe Neko, Blumenstockgasse 5, Ecke Ballgasse 1010 Wien; +43 1 5121 466 This article was first published in June 2014 and updated in July 2019.

Ulrike Lemmin-Woolfrey is a freelance writer and author based in Melbourne, Australia. Her first book is "Living Abroad in Australia" (2nd edition) by Moon Travel Guides and she's currently working on the "Moon Handbook to Sydney & the Great Barrier Reef," and "Spotlight Sydney," both due to be published in late 2014. China's economic slowdown is real, but it's not just about tariffs Hong Kong (CNN Business)China's economic growth has slumped to its lowest level in nearly three decades, but the trade war with the United States isn't solely to blame. Gross domestic product growth dropped to 6.2% in the second quarter, the weakest since the government started publishing quarterly figures in 1992, the national statistics authority said this week. Soon after the figures were published, President Donald Trump tweeted this: "The United States Tariffs are having a major effect on companies wanting to leave China for non-tariffed countries. Thousands of companies are leaving. This is why China wants to make a deal with the U.S., and wishes it had not broken the original deal in the first place." Despite a truce agreed between Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping last month, US tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods remain in place and have already hit China's manufacturing and agricultural sectors. Some American companies are also switching to suppliers in other Asian countries like Vietnam, Taiwan, South Korea and Bangladesh. But analysts argue that the yearlong trade war is not the biggest drag on the world's second largest economy. The slowdown has as much to do with a debt mountain and cautious consumers. Debt and defaults China has been struggling for years to rein in high levels of debt, arising from a massive stimulus package launched during the 2008 financial crisis. While the stimulus boosted economic growth, it resulted in a $40 trillion mountain of government, corporate and household debt worth more than 300% of China's GDP as of March 2019, according to a report from the Washington-based Institute of International Finance this week. China's overall debt now accounts for about 15% of the global total, the IIF added. The Chinese government has reacted by tightening regulations in the financial system, scaling back bank lending, and clamping down on unregulated lending, also known as shadow banking. But these efforts to reduce China's reliance on debt-fueled growth have also made it more difficult for companies to obtain financing, especially private sector firms that usually find it harder to raise funds from banks than larger but less efficient state-run firms. Last year, defaults by Chinese companies hit a record high. In the first six months of this year, the number of defaults increased more than threefold from the same period last year, according to data compiled by Wind, a Chinese financial data provider. "Credit is still not flowing to the sectors that need it most," said Stephen Innes, managing partner of Singapore-based investment firm Vanguard Markets. Innes estimates that around 50% of the defaults came from China's large manufacturing sector, mostly by private companies. Consumers are cutting back The hit to growth this year has come from Chinese consumers, who hold off spending because they worry about the economy's future and rising personal debt levels. Elevated property prices have also strained their purchasing power. Retail sales grew by 8.4% in the first half, down from 9% in the same period last year. And some of the world's biggest companies are feeling the pinch. Apple's (AAPL) sales in China have tumbled. Its revenue in the Greater China region, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan, dropped 21.5% in the second quarter from the same period a year ago. Greater China accounted for about 18% of Apple's total revenue. Weak car sales are also a big part of the story. Total spending on cars increased by just 1.2% in the first six months of the year. Ford said earlier this month that it sold nearly 22% fewer vehicles in China during the second quarter than in the same period a year ago. General Motors posted a 12% drop in vehicle sales in China for the quarter. Steady deceleration China's economic slowdown predates the trade war by several years. Growth hit a record high of 14.2% in 2007 but has been steadily falling since as China grapples with several pressures on its economy. The government has lowered its growth target to a range of 6% to 6.5% for this year. China's efforts to shift its economy from one focused on manufacturing to one driven by technology and services have also contributed to the slowdown. Beijing has been cutting excess capacity in heavy industries such as steel, cement, shipbuilding, while encouraging domestic firms to shift to higher value-added areas. While that transition has seen the rise of giants like Tencent (TCEHY), Alibaba (BABA) and Huawei, it has also caused growing pains as traditional manufacturing workers struggle to make the shift. China has recently cut taxes and increased infrastructure spending in a bid to prevent a hard landing for the economy, but analysts say the country's model of state-sponsored growth may no longer work. "Continued reliance upon infrastructure projects with decreasing marginal returns seems unlikely to revive China's economy, and its state-run capital allocation system is an irrational and inefficient mess," said Brock Silvers, managing director for Shanghai-based Kaiyuan Capital. "Beijing has been working furiously to fix the economy... but its old methods may not fix its new problems," he added.  Chaos reigns in Washington Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump might finally have broken Washington. A Trump-induced midsummer madness enveloped the capital Tuesday, melting down some of the last bonds of civility needed for a functioning governing system. The uproar set off by Trump's racist tweets echoed from the White House to Capitol Hill, confirming the truism that no one who chooses to go into battle alongside or against this street fighting President ever emerges truly unscathed. The House erupted in bitter recriminations as Democrats passed a resolution condemning Trump for telling four minority lawmakers to "go back" to their "crime infested" countries. Three of the four women were born in the US. The other is a naturalized citizen. Only four Republicans voted with the Democrats. The rest of their party instead tried to censure Speaker Nancy Pelosi -- surreally accusing her of breaking the chamber's arcane manners when she said Trump's rhetoric was "disgraceful and disgusting" and "racist." At one point, the presiding officer, Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, D-Missouri, a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, laid down his gavel and walked out in frustration. Republicans twisted themselves in knots to avoid angering constituents by condemning the President's tweets, and sought to rebrand them as a patriotic denunciations of the extreme socialism they say is infecting the Democratic Party. "I think this party has been very clear, we are the party of Lincoln," House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy said. The Republican strategy was a reminder that most lawmakers in divided, gerrymandered America are more concerned about being primaried by a more radical activist than seeking the disappearing political center ground. It also underscored the omnipresent power of a President who warned colleagues whose history shows no previous sign of being reluctant to condemn racism not to show "weakness." In an incongruous moment, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell was stumped when asked what he would do if someone told his Taiwan-born wife to go back to the nationalist island. In the twilight zone of the White House, the man who unleashed the fury, Trump, expressed disgust at the "vile, horrible statements" said by the women he targeted over the color of their skin. In a bizarre moment outside, senior Trump aide Kellyanne Conway demanded to know the ethnicity of a reporter who asked her which country the four American lawmakers should return to. In a later Fox News interview, Conway said the women represented "the dark underbelly" of disrespect for America's military. And in another surreal twist to the situation, Conway's husband George earlier penned his latest devastating op-ed blasting his wife's boss as a "racist President" beyond the bounds of human decency. But white nationalist Richard Spencer complained to CNN that Trump wasn't going far enough, saying he gave the movement nothing "outside racist tweets" that seem like the came from "a drunk uncle." The price of division At times, it was hard to believe such scenes -- inciting buried hatreds and toxicity that only racial politics can provoke -- were taking place one-fifth of the way through the 21st Century. Yet this is what the Trump presidency has wrought. There is a price for the constant tearing of some of the nation's deepest divides. Some of it was on display in the rising tensions and distemper in Washington on Tuesday. The lasting impact of such conscious polarization on the part of a President -- an office holder who is normally looked on to heal national wounds -- is not yet clear. But it is likely to be discombobulating and to leave the country more torn and difficult to govern whenever it is that Trump leaves the political scene. Even Anthony Scaramucci, the short-lived former White House communications director and longtime Trump friend, rebuked the President's "bully-ish, Neanderthal-ish" racist comments. And Tuesday is only the beginning. Since Trump has put white nationalist fear mongering at the center of his reelection campaign, the atmosphere will surely worsen as 2020 looms. "This is not going to be the last time this happens. We are going to be having this discussion a lot in the next 17 months because he thinks it is to his advantage to do it," David Axelrod, a CNN senior political analyst and former Barack Obama strategist said on "The Lead with Jake Tapper." "And, yes, it is important for us as a country to express our moral outrage about these tactics, but at some point, they have to be discussed as tactics." Under normal circumstances, it would be a legacy-defining moment if a President was rebuked for racist language by the one half of a rival branch of government. That it is not is a measure of how Trump broke the political mold, enjoys impunity for his boundless conduct and has utterly co-opted his party. In the warped political calculations of the Trump era, the developments in the last few days might even come to be seen as some kind of political victory for the President. By singling out Reps. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, he hoped to make some of the most radical Democrats the face of the party ahead of 2020. They have promised not to take Trump's "bait" but conservative media is making sure that Trump's base sees plenty of the quartet. It's also painting the President's racism as an example of liberal hysteria and yet more victimization of Trump by critics who are obsessed with identity politics. And the President is not going to lose any sleep about being censured by the House. He's always framed himself as the scourge of the Washington elite and he knows GOP control of the Senate means he won't be embarrassed in the other chamber. And for a day at least, the Democrats were distracted from their plans to pass a positive agenda on issues like health care, education and climate change that preoccupy their voters. Normally, at moments of Trump-induced dysfunction, commentators note that the President engineers chaos as a master stroke to keep his political foes off balance. His instinctive, incessant stoking of his base is interpreted as an effort to emulate his shock 2016 election win. Yet the President's inflammatory rhetoric during the midterm elections seemed to alienate many more moderate voters who he will still need to win a second term. He's playing a risky political game -- though it may be the only one he really knows how to play. Looking for cover  Even in the most distasteful Washington storms, political leaders grope for whatever incremental cover they can find. By presenting herself as the face of the resolution condemning Trump, Pelosi was able to mend bonds with the four congresswomen with whom she was involved in a spat last week about their flouting of party discipline as she seeks to protect the more moderate caucus members who won her the House in 2018. It seems more than a few days ago that Ocasio-Cortez claimed the speaker was "singling out" freshmen women of color. For a few days at least, Pelosi's steps to confront and condemn the President could alleviate some of the pressure building up from restive Democrats angry that she has slow walked impeachment. And she succeeded in getting Republicans on the record denying that Trump's suggestion that the four American lawmakers "go back" to their "broken and crime infested" countries is racist. McConnell, who has no appetite to anger the Trump base as he seeks to hold onto the Senate next year, attempted to ease the political pressure on his own troops. "I think there's been a consensus that political rhetoric has really gotten way, way overheated all across the political spectrum," he said, mostly blaming Democrats and not at all blaming Trump. "We all know politics is a contact sport, but it's about time we lowered the temperature all across the board. All of us ought to contribute to a better level of discourse." Asked by CNN's Manu Raju what he would say if someone told his wife, Elaine Chao, Trump's Transportation secretary to "go back" to where she came from, McConnell took refuge in a non sequitur argument about how he was a fan of legal immigration. CNN's Manu Raju, Ashleigh Killough and Kaitlan Collins contributed to this story China holds drills in Taiwan Strait, calls for sanctions against US companies Hong Kong (CNN)China held military drills off the coast of Taiwan as tensions rise between Beijing and Washington over US support for the island that China views as a part of its territory. The People's Liberation Army (PLA) announced in a statement Sunday that the military exercises off China's "southeast coast" involved both the navy and the air force, but provided few other details. Both Beijing and Taipei tried to downplay the drills, with the PLA describing the exercises as "a routine arrangement according to (our) annual plans." However, they come amid tension between the Beijing and Washington over a $2.2 billion US arms sale to Taiwan, and also coincide with a trip by Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen to the United States as she prepares to shore up support among the island's allies in the Caribbean. On Friday, China threatened to impose sanctions against any US companies who sold weapons to Taiwan. Chinese Ambassador to the US Cui Tiankai made it clear on Friday on Twitter that any attempt
s
by the US government to "split" Taiwan from China would provoke a swift response. "Those who play with fire will only get themselves burned. Period," he tweeted. 'Hot-button issue' The US State Department gave its approval of the multibillion-dollar arms deal with Taiwan on July 8, which includes 108 M1A2T Abrams tanks and Stinger missiles. In response, China's Foreign Ministry said it would impose sanctions on any companies selling arms to Taiwan, although it didn't single any out by name. Speaking on Monday, Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said he wasn't in a position to "disclose more details" at present. "Please believe that China always keeps its promises and its actions always produce results," he said. Among the companies that could be affected would be Raytheon Missile Systems, who make the Stingers, or General Dynamics Land Systems, who are responsible for the Abrams tanks. "In order to safeguard national interests, China will impose sanctions on US companies involved in the arms sales to Taiwan," spokesman Geng said Friday. La Trobe University associate professor James Leibold said that Taiwan was being used as a bargaining chip by both US and China and the threat of sanctions showed Beijing felt ready to escalate the issue. Taiwan was becoming more of a "hot-button issue" for both governments due to a push for closer relations from Washington, said Leibold. "Clearly some in the Trump administration want to strengthen the alliance with Taiwan, and as we all know the Taiwan issue has always been a deeply sensitive one for the People's Republic of China," he said. Taiwan has been self-ruled since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949, which saw the Communist Party take control of the mainland and the Nationalist government forced to flee to the island. But Beijing still views the island as their territory and has worked consistently for decades to try to threaten or cajole it into rejoining with the mainland. Chinese President Xi Jinping has regularly called for the reunification of Taiwan, even refusing to rule out force in a major speech in January. In the past year, China has ramped up its military exercises around the island. It held live fire drills in the Taiwan Strait in 2018, while Chinese fighter jets crossed the maritime border separating the island from the mainland in a rare incursion in April. Taiwan's Ministry of Defense said that the PLA's drills on Sunday were "nothing more than routine exercises," according to Taiwan's news agency CNA, adding that the island's military was ready to respond to any threats. Taiwan president defiant The rise in tensions comes amid a visit to the US by Taiwan President Tsai on her way to visit the island's allies in the Caribbean. Tsai is spending an unusually long stopover of four nights in the country, including two nights in New York. There is no confirmation of what meetings she is expected to have while in the country. Her visit alone was enough to antagonize the Chinese government, which opposes any official contact between Washington and Taipei. "Allowing Tsai to 'stop over' violates the #oneChina principle ... China urges the US to properly handle the Taiwan issue to prevent damaging China US relations and peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait," China's embassy in the US said on its official Twitter Friday. But Tsai hasn't been deterred by the Chinese government's opposition, holding a public meeting with representatives of Taiwan's remaining 17 allies in New York. "Taiwan will firmly defend our democratic system. Our democracy has not come easily and is now facing the threat and penetration of overseas forces," said Tsai, implicitly criticizing Beijing. On her way back to Taipei, Tsai will stop over in Denver, Colorado. While in the Caribbean, Tsai will visit St. Vincent and the Grenadines, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia and Haiti. Taiwan's leader has taken an increasingly strident anti-China stance ahead of the national election in January 2020 where she will seek re-election. It was announced on Monday that she will face opposition Kuomintang presidential candidate Han Kuo-yu, who won his party's nomination with 44% of the vote. Despite being viewed as more pro-Beijing than Tsai, Han appeared to take a harder stance against further integration with the mainland in June, amid increasingly heated protests in Hong Kong. "'One Country, Two Systems' can never be implemented in Taiwan. Taiwanese people can never accept it, unless it's over my dead body," Han told a rally in June.  Trump's most openly racist rhetoric yet is not at all surprising Washington (CNN)The most shocking thing about Donald Trump's racist tweets is that possibly the most fundamentally un-American outburst of modern presidential rhetoric did not come remotely as a surprise. The second most shocking aspect of an episode that would have rocked any other administration is that the President knows he can trade in such base tactics because he will pay no price in a Republican Party cowed by his fervent political base. Many GOP voters and lawmakers are uncomfortable with Trump's conduct and sentiments. But most are sufficiently satisfied with the ideological direction of his presidency that they are willing to turn a blind eye to such behavior, making it a useful political weapon as he seeks to drive a rampant base turnout in 2020. In an attack clearly aimed at four minority Democratic lawmakers -- the President did not name the "progressives" in his tirade -- Trump underlined how his presidency has used bigotry as a lever of power and made it a fact of 21st century political life more than half a century after the peak of the Civil Rights era. His use of the nation's most revered office to make such unequivocally racist remarks emphasizes how a presidency stewing in rage, fear and identity politics lacks boundaries. And Trump's xenophobia made it more obvious than ever that he plans to win reelection by carving a nativist schism between white, rural America and the increasingly diverse population being courted by Democrats. He said as much Monday morning, daring Democrats to align themselves with the "very unpopular & unrepresentative Congresswomen," saying "it will be interesting to see how it plays out." But Trump risks opening divides that will take years to heal. By telling the four women — three of whom were born in the US — to "go back" to where they came from, Trump employed the most basic and crude racial taunt. He also implicitly rejected the motto emblazoned on America's Great Seal — E Pluribus Unum — from many one. He is implying that any American who is not white and native born has no place in the country. In a less polarized time, Trump's tweets may have been disqualifying and an outrageous political twist. But Trump forged his entry into politics based on a racist slur against the nation's first black President Barack Obama and he has become ever more willing to use such tactics to save his own presidency. And he's rarely paid a price. The silence from Republicans Sunday about Trump's tweets was near universal, emphasizing how his outlandish behavior is tolerated by lawmakers who represent half of the electorate and who won't risk their own political careers to condemn him. With just more than 15 months to go before the next president is chosen, the already poisonous tone of Trump's reelection campaign seems almost certain to become far, far worse. The question is whether Trump will alienate sufficient crops of more moderate voters to swing the White House to Democrats or whether his raging culture wars will maximize turnout in his own party and hand him a second term. His attack is a logical extension of an election strategy that is clearly designed to exploit racial and social divides. Trump's tweets came on a day when border agents started raids targeting undocumented migrants — bolstering Trump's scorched earth immigration rhetoric at the center of his 2020 campaign. They took the President's current fear and conspiracy-laden politics to a fresh peak, after he warned last week of "illegal aliens in our midst" and maligned the patriotism of his critics at inflammatory White House events. In the face of widespread outrage -- even British Prime Minister Theresa May's office called the tweets "completely unacceptable" -- Trump refused to back down, calling Monday morning for the "radical left congresswomen" to apologize "to our Country, the people of Israel and even to the Office of the President, for the foul language they have used, and the terrible things they have said. So many people are angry at them & their horrible & disgusting actions!" At the White House, Vice President Mike Pence's chief of staff Marc Short struggled to come up with a credible defense of the President. He said Trump's choice of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, a naturalized American who was born in Taiwan, proved that he was not racist since she was "an Asian woman of color." He also highlighted Pence's role in presiding over a naturalization ceremony on July 4. Short also claimed that Trump was specifically targeting one of the congresswomen, Somali-born Rep. Ilhan Omar -- who has been criticized for anti-Semitic remarks -- even though the President's tweets indicate otherwise. A history of racial rhetoric Trump targeted the liberal Democratic lawmakers in a flurry of Sunday morning tweets that reverberated with extremist white nationalistic sentiment. He hit out at congresswomen who he claimed "originally came from countries whose governments are a complete and total catastrophe, the worst, most corrupt and inept anywhere in the world ... now loudly and viciously telling the people of the United States, the greatest and most powerful Nation on earth, how our government is to be run." "Why don't they go back and help fix the totally broken and crime infested places from which they came. Then come back and show us how it is done." Trump was referring to four lawmakers who have been in conflict with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi — Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, Omar from Minnesota, Michigan's Rashida Tlaib and Ayanna Pressley from Massachusetts. All of the women have been outspoken about Trump's immigration policies. Of that quartet, only Omar — who is originally from Somalia — was not born in the United States, but she immigrated to the United States when she was young and became a citizen at the age of 17, according to The New York Times. The reason why Trump's attack was not surprising is because it fits into a pattern of racially charged rhetoric that he has been willing to use in private life — dating back to his comments on the Central Park Five and the "birtherism" campaign against Obama. While it is shocking to see such open racism expressed by a President of the United States, Sunday's tweets were far from the first time that Trump has dealt in such toxicity in office. He has painted a picture of hordes of criminals mobbing the US southern border in an invasion force of undocumented migrants. He has said America can't take any more immigrants because it is "full." He reportedly referred to some African nations as "sh**hole countries and expressed a preference for more immigrants from Norway — a predominantly white nation. The debate about whether Trump is a "racist" that pops up after such comments seems increasingly academic. Democratic politicians, including Ocasio-Cortez and Pelosi were quick to condemn Trump's tweets. In the short-term, they might have backfired politically for Trump by helping soothe antagonism in the two wings of the House Democratic caucus. Democratic presidential candidates also were quick to condemn Trump, as his remarks played directly into their narrative that he abhors American values and is unfit to be President. "America's strength is and has always been rooted in our diversity. But President Trump continues to spew hateful rhetoric, sow division, and stoke racial tensions for his own political gain," Democratic front runner Joe Biden tweeted. New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker told CNN: "This president is hurting our country and bigotry like he just spewed is something we need to end in this nation." Trump's base will stand firm The lesson of Trump's political career is that while his tweets will cause outrage — they will not measurably reshape the political environment in the short-term. Republicans who support Trump by margins of close to 90% in recent polls have long ago made peace with the President's outrageousness or are willing to look the other way as he implements a conservative agenda, especially in the courts. Trump's incessant catering to his base means he has little to fear politically from the modern Republican Party. Media outrage at Trump's behavior will play into the persecution complex and hatred of political correctness that the President has made central to his appeal to his closest supporters. Trump's aides may start to deny the clear implications of his tweets and try to stir up new anti-media hatred in his base. During Trump's campaign in 2016 and in the early months of his presidency, some Republican leaders offered token criticism when he veered into flagrant racial rhetoric. But the political reality is that there is little to be gained -- and much to be lost from taking on the President directly for GOP lawmakers. The President has only one hope of winning reelection -- thanks to the way that he has conducted his presidency. He must hope his fired up political base will show up to the polls in greater numbers than voters supporting Democrats that he is painting as extreme and bent on a communist takeover. That's why Sunday's tweets are probably not a historical aberration but a taste of things to come. CNN's Daniella Diaz and Betsy Klein contributed to this report. China's economic growth slumps to lowest in 27 years as the trade war hits Hong Kong (CNN Business)China's economic growth has slumped to its lowest level in nearly three decades as the world's second largest economy feels the effects of a prolonged trade war with the United States. The country's gross domestic product grew at 6.2% in the quarter ended June, the slowest quarterly growth rate since 1992 and down from 6.4% in the previous quarter, according to government figures released on Monday. And the Chinese economy will continue to face "downward pressure" in the second half of this year, the country's National Bureau of Statistics said in a statement. "The Chinese economy is still in a complex and grave situation," it said. "Global growth has slowed and external uncertainties are on the rise." Beijing and Washington recently agreed a temporary truce in their months-long trade war and are planning to restart trade talks. White House trade adviser Peter Navarro said in an interview with CNBC on Friday that US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer will travel to Beijing with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in the near future. But analysts say question marks remain over whether the two sides can reach a deal to remove tariffs introduced over the past 12 months. "Uncertainty caused by the US-China trade war was an important factor and we think this will persist," said Tom Rafferty, principal economist, China at The Economist Intelligence Unit. "Businesses remain skeptical that the two countries will reach a broader trade agreement and recognize that trade tensions may escalate again," he added. The growth numbers come after China reported a fall in both exports and imports for the first six months of this year, indicating the toll the trade war is having on an economy already suffering from weaker domestic demand. China's exports fell 1.3% year-on-year for the first half in dollar terms, while imports dropped 7.3%. The country recorded a sharper decline in exports to the United States, which decreased 8.1% for the first six months of 2019. Imports from the United States plunged 30% year on year. The trade war and China's economic slowdown has already hit some of the world's biggest businesses. Apple's (AAPL) sales in China have tumbled. Its revenue in the Greater China region, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan, dropped 21.5% in the second quarter from the same period a year ago, to $10.22 billion. Greater China accounted for about 18% of Apple's total revenue. Global auto brands are also suffering as the world's largest car market slows further this year, following its first contraction in decades in 2018. Chinese consumers are less willing to make big ticket purchases in the uncertain environment, while a government campaign against deadly levels of pollution is also having an impact. Still, the trade war is helping others at the same time it's hurting China's growth. Americans are buying more from suppliers in Vietnam, Taiwan, Bangladesh and South Korea as they try to avoid US tariffs on Chinese consumer goods, according to data released by the Census Bureau. Analysts expect Beijing to unveil more stimulus measures to stabilize growth, including boosting infrastructure spending and possible interest rate cuts by the country's central bank, the People's Bank of China. The US Federal Reserve has also signaled it may lower interest rates. "While the PBOC has already delivered stimulus this year, markets are awaiting. .. additional measures, which will probably come if trade talks collapse," said Edward Moya, a senior market analyst at Oanda. "If talks steadily progress, we will still probably see the [bank] deliver fresh stimulus following the Fed's highly anticipated rate cut at the end of the month. " Nanlin Fang contributed to this report. Taiwan's Tsai Ing-wen warns against 'overseas forces' at beginning of US trip (CNN)Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen arrived in the United States Thursday, warning that democracy in her homeland faced renewed threats from "overseas forces," in comments seemingly aimed at China. Tsai is heading to the Caribbean, stopping over in the US for a total of four nights, an unusually long transit period that has resulted in strenuous objections from Beijing. China claims the self-governed island of 24 million as part of its territory and has urged the US not to allow Tsai to transit there while on overseas tours. Typically Tsai spends just a night in the US while visiting regional allies. During this trip she is expected to spend two nights in New York, where Taiwan maintains a large unofficial consulate, and two nights on the return leg in Denver. There is no official itinerary for her visit or indication of whether she will meet with US officials. In a meeting with United Nations representatives of Taiwan's 17 diplomatic global allies Thursday, Tsai struck a defiant tone. "Taiwan will firmly defend our democratic system. Our democracy has not come easily and is now facing the threat and penetration of overseas forces," said Tsai. Outside her New York hotel, clashes broke out between pro-Taipei and pro-Beijing protesters, Taiwan's official news agency CNA reported. Tsai's extended stay, which comes amid a protracted trade dispute between the US and China, risks inflaming tensions and furthering the perception that the White House is seeking to bolster ties with Taipei. On Monday the US State Department approved the potential sale of more than $2 billion in tanks and anti-air missiles to the Taiwan military, sparking a furious reaction from Beijing. Taiwan has been self-ruled since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949, which saw the Communist Party take control of the mainland and the Nationalist government forced to flee to the island. Tsai's 12-day itinerary is aimed at shoring up relations with four Caribbean nations that continue to formally recognize the government in Taipei and not Beijing, and includes stops in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia and Haiti. In a speech prior to her departure from Taiwan early Thursday, Tsai pledged to use the trip to increase international cooperation. "Freedom, democracy and sustainability are the Taiwanese values we want to share with all our good friends in the world," said Tsai. "We will by no means restrict ourselves to a small corner of the Taiwan Strait." Though the US broke formal diplomatic relations with Taipei in 1979, it continues to maintain close ties with Taiwan. In May, US National Security Adviser John Bolton met with one of Taiwan's top defense officials, David Lee, the first meeting between the top security advisers of both governments since the formal split. "Our interest in Taiwan, especially as it relates to these military sales, is to promote peace and stability across the straits, across the region," US State Department spokesman Morgan Ortagus said in advance of Tsai's arrival in New York, Tuesday. "There's no change, of course, in our longstanding 'One China' policy," added Ortagus, referencing the policy under which Washington officially recognizes the Communist government in Beijing as the only legal government of China. Chinese President Xi Jinping has regularly called for the reunification of Taiwan with the mainland, even refusing to rule out force in a major speech in January. The Chinese military held live fire drills in the Taiwan Strait in 2018, while Chinese fighter jets crossed the maritime border separating the island from the mainland in a rare incursion in April. Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe told an audience in Singapore in June that if anyone attempted to "split" Taiwan from China, "the Chinese military has no choice but to fight at all costs for national unity." Tsai is currently faced with an uphill battle for re-election in elections scheduled for January, against an resurgent opposition Nationalist party -- known as Kuomintang -- and is said to have attempted to polish her anti-Beijing credentials in a bid to win votes. CNN's Eric Cheung contributed to this article. China interrupts Hong Kong pop star during UN speech Hong Kong (CNN)Chinese diplomats repeatedly interrupted a Hong Kong pop star and activist as she accused Beijing of "preventing our democracy at all costs" in a speech to the United Nations on Monday. Denise Ho told the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva that China had reneged on the commitments it made when it took control of Hong Kong in 1997, echoing the concerns of millions of Hong Kongers who have joined mass protests in recent weeks. "The Vienna Declaration guarantees democracy and human rights. Yet in Hong Kong, these are under serious attack," Ho said in her short address to the UN body. China's delegation interrupted Ho's speech twice by raising procedural motions. First, it accused Ho of violating the UN constitution by referring to Hong Kong as a country rather than a part of China and asked that she use "wordings that conform with UN rules." The Chinese diplomat used the second motion to accused Ho of "baselessly" attacking the "one country, two systems" arrangement under which the city is governed. Ho ended her speech by asking the UN to convene an urgent session to "protect the people of Hong Kong" and remove China from the UN Human Rights Council. Weeks of protest Hong Kongers have been protesting in huge numbers over the past month against a controversial bill that critics say will put political activists and business people at risk of being extradited to mainland China. The Hong Kong government says the bill merely closes a loophole to allow suspected criminals to be extradited to territories where it doesn't have formal extradition deals, including Taiwan, Macau and mainland China. After the protests, Hong Kong's leader Carrie Lam suspended the bill. While she didn't give a timeline for the resumption of debate on the legislation, she indicated that it was unlikely to pass this year. Speaking Tuesday, Lam reiterated that "the bill is dead" but again stopped short of formally withdrawing it, a move protesters want in order to safeguard against the legislative process being easily resumed. Opponents want to see the bill fully withdrawn and have expanded their list of demands to include Lam's resignation and full universal suffrage for the election of the city's leader and legislature. "The Hong Kong people have had enough with the Hong Kong government not listening to their voices," Ho said in an interview with Swiss TV after her speech. "This extradition bill is just a trigger to all the frustration that have been happening these past 10 to 15 years, where we saw all the freedoms and human rights being abused by the Hong Kong government. And of course, the Chinese government behind it." The continued rallies, which had mostly been peaceful, turned violent on July 1 when some of the protesters smashed their way into Hong Kong's Legislative Council Building, sprayed graffiti on the walls and defaced the official Hong Kong emblem. CNN's Eric Cheung and James Griffiths contributed reporting US would be 'stupid' to treat China as an enemy, senior diplomat says Hong Kong (CNN)A senior Chinese diplomat told an international forum in Beijing Monday there could be "disastrous" consequences if the US treats China as an "enemy." China's Vice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng warned against blaming Beijing for all of Washington's problems, as both sides prepare to restart talks to end the year-long trade war. "The economic imbalance, polarization between the rich and poor, the aging of infrastructure -- all of those have their own causes, but it's not because of China. (You) shouldn't see China as the scapegoat," Le told the World Peace Forum at Tsinghua University. "It's stupid to see China as (an) enemy and there will be disastrous consequences to do so." US President Donald Trump announced a temporary ceasefire in the raging trade war between the two countries in June, after meeting with Chinese leader Xi Jinping at the G20 in Japan. Talks unexpectedly stalled in early May, with both sides blaming the other. While trade negotiations between the two countries now seem to be back on track, tensions between Washington and Beijing are still rising on a number of fronts. On Monday, the Trump administration approved a new $2 billion arms sale to Taiwan, including hundreds of Stinger missiles and 108 M1A2T Abrams tanks. The Chinese government has yet to respond to the approval. But in March China's Defense Ministry said that Beijing was "firmly opposed to US arms sales to Taiwan and US military contact with Taiwan." In his speech Monday, Le alluded to accusations made by China's state-run media that the US was deliberately delaying student visa approvals for applicants from China. "This practice of using blood lineage and race as a label to hamper people-to-people exchanges between the two countries is unpopular," the Chinese diplomat said. US President Trump told reporters after his meeting with Xi on June 29 that he wanted to see more Chinese students studying in the US. Le is considered to be a rising figure in the Chinese Foreign Ministry. Chinese politics expert Bill Bishop said he could be next in line to be Chinese ambassador to the United States. "Current ambassador Cui Tiankai is well past the normal term here," Bishop said, adding that there had been rumors of Cui's imminent departure before. "Le is the only (potential replacement) I hear from people I consider credible."  US approves major arms sale to Taiwan amid trade tensions with Beijing (CNN)The Trump administration has approved selling Abrams tanks and Stinger missiles to Taiwan, a major potential arms sale that is bound to irk Beijing and comes as the administration seeks to negotiate a major trade agreement with China. Congress was notified Monday that the State Department had approved both potential sales, which include 108 M1A2T Abrams tanks, plus related equipment, and some 250 Stinger missiles. Both types of equipment had been requested by Taiwan. Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen said in March that the weaponry she had requested from Washington would "greatly enhance our land and air capabilities, strengthen military morale and show to the world the US commitment to Taiwan's defense." In response, China's Defense Ministry said Beijing was "firmly opposed to US arms sales to Taiwan and US military contact with Taiwan." The tanks are valued at up to $2 billion while the portable surface-to-air Stinger missiles are estimated to cost up to $223 million. The Pentagon's Defense Security Cooperation Agency said that the tank sale serves "US national, economic, and security interests by supporting" Taiwan's "continuing efforts to modernize its armed forces and to maintain a credible defensive capability." The agency also said that the Stinger missile sale would improve the security and defensive capability of Taiwan, which it called "an important force for political stability, military balance, and economic progress in the region." Neither sale, the agency said, would "alter the basic military balance in the region." While the US has long provided arms to Taiwan as part of the 40-year-old Taiwan Relations Act, Beijing has long chaffed at those sales. "Although China advocates for peaceful unification with Taiwan, China has never renounced the use of military force, and continues to develop and deploy advanced military capabilities needed for a potential military campaign," a report from the Pentagon's Defense Intelligence Agency warned in May. The report also warned that Taiwan's traditional military advantages over Beijing in the event of a cross-strait conflict were eroding in the face of China's military modernization efforts. "Taiwan has historically enjoyed military advantages in the context of a cross-Strait conflict, such as technological superiority and the inherent geographic advantages of island defense, China's multi-decade military modernization effort has eroded or negated many of these advantages," the report added, saying that "although Taiwan is taking important steps to compensate for the growing disparities ... these improvements only partially address Taiwan's declining defensive advantages." Since 2010, the US has announced more than $15 billion in arms sales to Taiwan. The US has also been locked in a long running trade dispute with Beijing. On Sunday, President Donald Trump told reporters that "we're doing very well with China" and that his administration's imposition of tariffs on China had helped the negotiations. CNN's Joshua Berlinger and Zachary Cohen contributed to this report. Losing one island cost Japan a war. That's a warning for the South China Sea Hong Kong (CNN)In early July 1944, on a tiny island in the Pacific Ocean, the United States clinched a devastating defeat over Japan in one of the bloodiest battles of World War II. Some 29,000 Japanese troops, almost the entire force Tokyo put on Saipan, in the Northern Marianas, were killed. US losses totaled almost 3,000 dead and more than 10,000 wounded. It was a pivotal moment in the war. Soon after the Battle of Saipan, the US took the nearby islands of Tinian and Guam. On all three islands, the US built runways to accommodate heavy B-29 bombers, the biggest bombers in World War II. Within months, those B-29s had burned vast swathes of Tokyo and pounded factories supporting the Japanese war machine. At one point, the US airfield on Tinian -- just 5 miles (9 kilometers) from Saipan -- was the largest airport in the world, with six runways accommodating almost 270 B-29s. As the US thrived on these islands, Japan crumbled. In August 1945, B-29s flying from Tinian dropped atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, spurring Japan's surrender. When considering current tensions in the South China Sea, where China has built airstrips, the Battle of Saipan offers important lessons that should not be ignored. The South China Sea Controversy has been building for years over the South China Sea -- essentially, 1.3 million square miles of international or contested waters and islands. China has been building runways and military facilities on reclaimed shoals and sandbars there to reinforce its territorial claims in the sea, something the US says endangers free passage. These facilities also give China a greater strike range by allowing it to deploy aircraft from previously unoccupied territory. "Chinese long-range bombers if staging through the islands is certainly an issue," says Peter Layton, a military analyst at Australia's Griffith Asia Institute. "That would allow air-launched cruise missile strikes into northern Australia airfields and ports, (placing) any USAF bombers and tankers deployed there at risk." That means places such as RAAF Base Tindal, near Darwin in northern Australia, must now be defended against a "sophisticated threat," says Layton. "This is a major change," he adds, noting that such bases used to be thought of as "sanctuaries well outside Chinese strike range." Underscoring the seriousness of the matter, a 2018 report from the RAND Corp. think tank recommended joint US-Australia air defense exercises as a deterrent against any possible action from China. US and Australian forces regularly train together in Darwin, and as recently as May US and Royal Australian Airforce (RAAF) pilots took part in a bilateral training exercise off Australia's Northern Territory. An extra 1,000 miles of range Carl Schuster, a former US Navy captain and instructor at Hawaii Pacific University, says that having runways in the South China Sea effectively adds more than 1,000 miles to the range of China's biggest bombers, the H-6K. Those aircraft can be armed with long-range cruise missiles, which allow the bombers to stay out of the reach of anti-aircraft defenses. Schuster makes another point -- one that didn't necessarily apply in the case of Saipan, but certainly looms large 75 years later. While in 1944, the US had one specific enemy in this region -- Japan -- in 2019, China seeks to exert influence over a range of countries. "By controlling the South China Sea, China can project its air and sea power to the Pacific Ocean's western entry points, Malacca, Sundra and Lombok Straits," Schuster says. The means China can "ensure entry and exit of its maritime forces and commerce to and from the Indian Ocean, through which 45% of China's exports and 60% of raw material imports must pass," he adds. The influence of those runways and military facilities also pushes northwards. "That control also extends China's defensive buffer to the southeast by nearly 600 miles, (and) all but ensures leverage against Japan and Taiwan, since those waters are critical to those countries' economies," Schuster says. China says the runways and military assets it has installed in the South China Sea are for defense purposes only, to protect what it claims is its sovereign territory. Last weekend. China tested an anti-ship missile near the Spratly Islands, in the southern reaches of these waters, and in June it sent J-10 fighters to a deployment on Woody Island in the Paracels. "The Chinese People's Liberation Army needs to deploy fighter jets at military airports to protect the territorial airspace and sea," state-sanctioned Global Times quoted Chinese air defense expert Fu Qianshao as saying. Schuster said the deployment of those fighter jets sent a much broader message. "It ... makes a statement that they can extend their air power reach over the South China Sea as required or desired," he said. Supply chains While small islands can help a country project power with aircraft and missiles, they also offer a more mundane but vital advantage for any military -- something Saipan gave the Americans in World War II: a place to shorten the supply chain and stage ground forces. Saipan, for example, became a vital way to support US operations on islands closer to the Japanese mainland, such as Okinawa, making those campaigns easier to sustain. In the South China Sea, island facilities could give PLA ships safe harbors where they can rest and replenish without going back to bases on the Chinese mainland. While no one is contending that any conflict -- let alone one on the scale of World War II -- is an imminent risk in the South China Sea, China's islands would give it a distinct advantage in the event of war. And, as Japan failed to recover from the losses sustained on Saipan in 1944, some wonder if it's too late for the US and its allies and partners in Asia to reverse the gains China has made by constructing the islands. They "allow China to dominate the central ASEAN region," Layton said. "No regional nation ... can realistically counter the threat the islands now pose."  This bunk bed is $1,200 a month, privacy not included (CNN)Housing costs have become so expensive in some cities that people are renting bunk beds in a communal home for $1,200 a month. Not a bedroom. A bed. PodShare is trying to help make up for the shortage of affordable housing in cities like San Francisco and Los Angeles by renting dormitory-style lodging and providing tenants a co-living experience. A PodShare membership allows you to snag any of the 220 beds -- or pods -- at six locations across Los Angeles and one in San Francisco. There's no deposit and no commitment. You get a bed, a locker, access to wifi and the chance to meet fellow "pod-estrians." Each pod includes a shelf and a personal television. Food staples, like cereal and ramen, and toiletries like toothpaste and toilet paper, are also included. What you don't get? Privacy. But that's an easy trade-off, say the mostly young people who live there. Stephen T. Johnson, the 27-year-old founder of FlipMass, an advertising company for Instagram influencers, says he can afford his own place in San Francisco, but doesn't want to be locked into renting a tiny, overpriced apartment. "I had a micro studio that was $1,750 per month," says Johnson. "It was less than 200 square feet. This is actually a luxury and costs less than the place that I lived a couple blocks down the street." He's been living at PodShare for five months, and using it as a live/work space. "I think anyone that's staying in arrangements like this is just early to a new form of housing," Johnson says. "There's so many different living arrangements and I think this will just be one of the available options to everyone in the future." The Pod life Although PodShare may seem a lot like a hostel (bunk beds in a shared room, for example), the company prefers to call it co-living. PodShare may not have as much privacy as an apartment, says Rayyan Zahid, 23, a software engineer living in San Francisco, but that's not a priority for him at the moment. "What does matter is if I'm in the right place and surrounded by the right people and if it is efficient." PodShare allows him to live close to work, eliminating the two-hour commute time he would have if he'd moved to a suburb he could afford. As an immigrant from Pakistan, Zahid says he struggled with all of the requirements to get an apartment. "I was trying to find a place to rent," he says. "But I needed to have a credit score. I needed to have my tax records. Just stuff like that. If you study here, you might have some of those things. But if you're immigrating, you will most definitely not have those things." Elvina Beck, PodShare's 34-year-old founder, says that she created these spaces because this is the way she wanted to live -- meeting new people, traveling to new places -- but she's gratified that it provides a safe solution for others who have few options. "Maybe they don't have two months' rent to put down or they don't have proof of income," she says. "Whether it's from a divorce or their family kicked them out for being gay or because they're in a different country or a different city." She says when she launched the company in 2012, tenants were mostly 24 to 30, but now the typical age has pushed up to late 20s and early 30s. And while the typical user is a young person starting out or moving to a new city, there are older adults who are trying out a new city and even business travelers. A home of her own -- with others Beck, who is also a resident of PodShare and moves among the different locations, has her sights set on a larger affordable housing solution: membership-based housing in the cloud. She imagines finding a home wherever you happen to be via a network of existing properties to which members would have access. Ultimately her vision is global: "The goal is to empower the global citizen and live anywhere across the world for one monthly price. A $1,000 a month [membership] should get you a chance to live from here to Taiwan back to Boston. You cover the flight and we'll cover the housing. It's all included." In 2010, when Beck was struggling to find production work in LA, she was having a hard time finding an affordable place to live near her freelance gigs in Hollywood. She had an idea to scale up the roommate model to a higher density so that the cost of living in an appealing location could be as low as possible. She figured, why not also split up some costs of toiletries and basic food staples, too? When she told her dad she was going to use her savings to build a co-living space and asked him to come to LA to help her build the adult-sized bunk-beds she calls pods, he didn't think it was a great idea. "People don't want to live with strangers,'" Beck recalled him saying. " 'They want privacy. They want lots of space themselves. You're basically taking away everything that people want.' " But she pushed back and told him that in desirable urban areas, privacy and space are things people are willing to give up in order to be where the action is. And the community component is critical. "You have to be willing to share," she says. "I think if you are not willing to share a small space with a stranger, PodShare is not for you." And there are some ground rules: Lights out at 10 pm, and no guests allowed. "You can't invite any friends over," she says. "Sorry. Just make new ones here."  Pence touts 'most generous system of legal immigration' during naturalization ceremony (CNN)Vice President Mike Pence attended a naturalization ceremony for 44 new US citizens this Independence Day, touting the legal immigration system as the administration grapples with adding a citizenship question to the 2020 census and images of inhumane conditions for asylum seekers on the US-Mexico border have captured the nation's attention. "All of you aspired to be Americans," Pence said during remarks at the National Archives on Thursday morning. "You stepped forward. You followed the law. You went through the process to immigrate into this great nation." He continued, "The 44 of you and your families are hardly alone. Last year, more than three-quarters of a million people raised their right hand and swore the very same oath that you just took. Your example and theirs gives evidence that then as now, and throughout our nation's history, America has the most generous system of legal immigration in the history of the world and we are proud to have you join our ranks." Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, an immigrant herself, briefly spoke about her family's experience coming to the United States from Taiwan and receiving her own citizenship. Acting Director of Citizenship and Immigration Services Ken Cuccinelli performed the swearing-in ceremony. President Donald Trump, who will commemorate the Fourth of July with "Salute to America" remarks Thursday evening on the National Mall, spent the morning at his Northern Virginia golf club. The 44 new citizens hailed from 26 countries and included an electrician, a banker, a college counselor and an Uber driver, per Pence, who acknowledged the "challenges" of the US immigration system. "Now as fellow Americans, you'll be a part of many debates in the life of this nation, including debates over immigration in America. And we all know that our current system of immigration faces real challenges," the vice president said, adding, "But to those of you who step forward today, who made the sacrifices and went through the process, let me say on behalf of President Donald Trump and on behalf of the American people, welcome to the American family." The ceremony came a day after the administration reversed course on adding a citizenship question to the 2020 census. Justice Department lawyers told a federal judge Wednesday that they have been told to try to add the question in a way that's consistent with a Supreme Court ruling following Trump's tweet that "we are absolutely moving forward" with the question. On Wednesday, the President tweeted a defense against reports of inhumane conditions, extreme overcrowding and thinly stretched resources at Border Patrol facilities, claiming that migrants seeking asylum who were subjected to these conditions "are living far better now than where they came from."  Dalai Lama Fast Facts Here is a look at the life of his Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, Buddhist spiritual leader of the people of Tibet. Personal:

Birth date: July 6, 1935 Birth place: Taktser, Amdo, Eastern Tibet Birth name: Lhamo Dhondup Father: Choekyong Tsering Mother: Dekyi Tsering Education: Geshe Lharampa Degree (Doctorate of Buddhist Philosophy), 1959 Other Facts:

The Dalai Lamas are considered the manifestations of the Bodhisattva (Buddha) of Compassion, who chose to reincarnate to serve the people. This Dalai Lama, the 14th Dalai Lama Tenzin Gyatsois, is the 74th manifestation of Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva, the enlightened Buddha of compassion. Tibetans normally refer to His Holiness as Yeshe Norbu, the Wishfulfilling Gem, or simply Kundun -- The Presence. Has traveled to numerous countries with a message of religious and cultural tolerance and peace. Awarded a Nobel Peace Prize. Timeline:

1938 - Is taken from his family in Taktser to the Kumbum monastery after a delegation of monks looking for the new Dalai Lama find him. February 22, 1940 - Enthronement ceremony takes place in Lhasa, Tibet. His birth name is forfeited and he assumes the name Jetsun Jamphel Ngawang Lobsang Yeshe Tenzin Gyatso. November 8, 1950 - Chinese soldiers of the People's Liberation Army invade Tibet at Lhasa. November 17, 1950 - The Dalai Lama assumes full political power as Tibetan Head of State and Government ahead of schedule. Investiture is moved up from his 18th birthday as a result of China's invasion of Tibet. 1954-1959 - Participates in unsuccessful peace talks in Beijing with Chinese leaders including Mao Tse-Tung, Chou En-lai and Deng Xiaoping. In 1959, the talks end when the Chinese army forces 80,000 Tibetan refugees into exile. March 17, 1959 - Goes into exile; leaves Lhasa for India dressed as a soldier. April 21, 1959 - Officially takes up residence in exile in Mussoorie, India. 1960 - Dharamsala, India, becomes home to the Dalai Lama and headquarters of the government-in-exile of Tibet. 1963 - Enacts a new Tibetan democratic constitution based on Buddhist principles and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. September 30, 1973 - Meets with Pope Paul VI at the Vatican, the first ever meeting of a pope and a spiritual leader of Tibetan Buddhists. May 1977 - The Chinese government makes the Dalai Lama a conditional offer, the opportunity to return to Tibet after acceptance of Chinese rule over Tibet. The offer is rejected. August 3, 1979 - Arrives in the United States for a 49-day tour. February 2, 1986 - Meets with Pope John Paul II in New Delhi. September 1987 - Attends the Congressional Human rights Caucus in Washington, DC, and proposes a Five Point Peace Plan for Tibet's future. 1989 - Wins the Nobel Peace Prize for his dedication to the nonviolent liberation of Tibet. April 16, 1991 - White House meeting with US President George H. W. Bush, the first ever between the spiritual leader and a president of the United States. May 6, 1993 - Meets with US President Bill Clinton and US Vice President Al Gore at the White House. September 1995 - Tours the United States urging government involvement with talks with China over Tibetan autonomy. March 27, 1997 - Meets with President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan in Taipei. December 25, 1997 - Disney, through Touchstone Pictures, releases the biopic "Kundun," directed by Martin Scorsese. November 10, 1998 - Requests assistance in opening official negotiations with China regarding the future of Tibet at a meeting of senior government officials in Washington, DC, that includes Clinton. The Dalai Lama says that the distrust between himself and China is too great to re-open the talks. May 2001 - Meets with US President George W. Bush, Congressional leaders and US Secretary of State Colin Powell, among others in Washington, DC. 2002 - Speaks out against China, stating that China should embrace democracy if the country is to be a major world power in the coming years. He also criticizes the United States-led war on terrorism, saying that the use of force to override terrorists overlooks the underlying problems that lead to terrorism. September 2003 - Begins a 16-day tour of the United States in San Francisco. Other cities he visits include New York; Boston; Washington; and Bloomington, Indiana, meeting again with Bush and Powell. September 19-22, 2004 - Tours South Florida and gives a series of public and private lectures on peace and religious and cultural harmony. Lecture sites include University of Miami and Florida International University. November 8, 2005 - Meets with Bush and US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in Washington. September 11, 2006 - Receives honorary Canadian citizenship in a ceremony at Vancouver's GM Place Stadium. February 5, 2007 - The Dalai Lama is named a presidential distinguished professor at Emory University in Atlanta. June 22, 2007 - Appears in the documentary, "Ten Questions for the Dalai Lama," a 2001 interview done in India that shows some of the life and teachings of the Dalai Lama. October 9-31, 2007 - Visits North America. While in Washington, DC, he is awarded the Congressional Gold Medal by Bush. He later visits Emory University in Atlanta for a conference and installation as a presidential distinguished professor. January 2008 - Calls for peaceful protests during the upcoming Beijing Olympics, to highlight the plight of Tibet. March 18, 2008 - States during an interview that he would step down as leader of Tibetan exiles if violence in Tibet were to get out of control. April 13, 2008 - Arrives in the US for a 10-day tour that makes stops in Seattle, Ann Arbor, Michigan, and Hamilton, New York. April 21, 2008 - The Dalai Lama is made an "honorary citizen" of Paris, over the objections of French President Nicolas Sarkozy's political party. May 23, 2008 - Meets with British Prime Minister Gordon Brown in London. June 12, 2008 - Urges his supporters not to cause trouble when the Olympic torch passes through Tibet; he also reiterates a general plea for his supporters not to target the torch or the Olympic games. October 6, 2009 - US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi awards the inaugural Lantos Human Rights Prize to the Dalai Lama, honoring his commitment to ending global injustices. February 18, 2010 - Meets with US President Barack Obama at the White House. March 10, 2011 - Announces plans to devolve political power to an elected leader of the Tibetan exile movement. May 29, 2011 - Approves amendments to the exiled constitution, formally removing his political and administrative responsibilities. July 16, 2011 - Meets with Obama at the White House. May 14, 2012 - Accepts the Templeton Prize, an award worth £1.1 million ($1.77 million) that honors "outstanding individuals who have devoted their talents to expanding our vision of human purpose and ultimate reality." February 21, 2014 - Meets with Obama at the White House. September 7, 2014 - The German newspaper Die Welt publishes an interview with the Dalai Lama in which he suggests ending the tradition of choosing a spiritual leader for the Tibetan people. The article sparks discussions about whether the Dalai Lama was declaring that he will not be reincarnated. He later clarifies his comments during an interview with the BBC, saying that it is "up to the Tibetan people" whether another Dalai Lama will arise after his death. May 6, 2016 - The New York Times reports the launch of the Atlas of Emotions, a project commissioned by the Dalai Lama. Created by psychologist Paul Ekman for $750,000, it is reportedly a "map of emotions" that aims to help people find inner peace. June 15, 2016 - Meets with Obama at the White House, his fourth meeting with the US president. December 14, 2017 - Announces the release of the Dalai Lama app. March 22, 2018 - Sonam Dagpo, spokesperson for the Central Tibetan Administration announces that the "His Holiness is invited to different countries but he has cut down public engagements because of age. He is exhausted after teaching for a long period of time. Therefore a few commitments have been canceled." April 9, 2019 - Aides announce that the Dalai Lama has been hospitalized with a chest infection, but is in stable condition. He is discharged two days later.  These are 4 winners of the US-China trade war Washington (CNN Business)Vietnam, Taiwan, Bangladesh and South Korea are coming out as victors in the US-China trade war. Americans are buying less from China. But rather than leaning on US producers, they're avoiding President Donald Trump's tariffs by turning to suppliers in other Asian countries. The trend, which has emerged throughout more than a year of inconclusive trade negotiations between Washington and Beijing, continued through May, according to data released Wednesday by the Census Bureau. During the first five months of the year, the United States imported 12% fewer goods from China during the same time period a year ago. But imports from Vietnam are up 36%, and they increased 23% from Taiwan, 14% from Bangladesh, and 12% from South Korea. Trump's tariffs have made consumer goods like baseball caps, luggage, bikes and handbags that are manufactured in China more expensive for American importers. The taxes have also hit a variety of machinery and industrial goods, including parts for dishwashers, washing machines, dryers and water filters. Trump said last week that talks are "back on track" and new tariffs are on hold after meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping at the G20 conference in Japan. But American business owners were startled in May when the administration escalated tariffs on $200 billion of goods to 25% from 10%, arguing that China reneged on previous agreements. Trump also threatened to impose new tariffs on the remaining Chinese imports, which would hit smartphones, toys, footwear and fish. The president has suggested that Beijing will agree to a deal because the tariffs he's imposed on Chinese goods are driving away business. "China is getting absolutely decimated by companies that are leaving China, going to other countries, including our own," he said in an interview with CNBC last month. But it's unclear whether companies are permanently shifting production outside of China, or simply rerouting goods for minimal processing before being shipped to the United States. Vietnam's customs agency said that it would start cracking down on goods of Chinese origin illegally relabeled "Made in Vietnam" by businesses attempting to avoid the US tariffs, according to a report from Reuters. It's not always easy to find suppliers outside of China that can manufacture the same good with the same quality and for a cheaper price. It's a process that could take months, or even years. Instead, an importer may decide to eat the cost, betting that Trump will lift the tariffs sooner rather than later. They can also choose to pass the cost on to consumers for the time being. Missouri-based Cap America imports a majority of its baseball caps from China and embroiders them in the United States. The company is trying a new supplier in Bangladesh to avoid the tariffs, but those orders will only make up about 20% of total imports this year as they test the quality. "You can't just snap your fingers and switch production. It's a definite process," said CEO Phil Page. About 40% of companies surveyed in May by the American Chamber of Commerce and its counterpart in Shanghai said they are considering or have already relocated some manufacturing outside of China because of the tariffs. For those that have moved production, about a quarter shifted to Southeast Asia. Fewer than 6% said they have relocated or are considering relocating to the United States. While imports from countries outside China have significantly increased this year, some production was already moving outside of China to places with even lower wages long before Trump began imposing tariffs. US imports from countries like Vietnam and South Korea have been steadily increasing over the past decade as those countries have ramped up manufacturing of apparel and electronics, respectively. Taiwan and South Korea are more focused on high-tech items like semiconductors, but Vietnam and Bangladesh still offer competitive wages — making them attractive places to make consumer items like apparel and shoes. Correction: The headline has been updated to correctly characterize the places that are mentioned in this article.  Kirsten Gillibrand Fast Facts (CNN)Here is a look at the life of US Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a Democratic senator from New York and a Democratic presidential candidate for 2020. Personal:

Birth date: December 9, 1966 Birth place: Albany, New York Birth name: Kirsten Elizabeth Rutnik Father: Douglas Paul Rutnik, attorney and lobbyist Mother: Polly (Noonan) Rutnik, attorney Marriage: Jonathan Gillibrand Children: Theodore and Henry Education: Dartmouth College, A.B., 1988 (Asian studies); University of California, Los Angeles, J.D., 1991 Religion: Catholic Other Facts:

Her first name is pronounced "Keer-sten." Speaks Mandarin Chinese. She studied in Taiwan and China during her undergraduate studies at Dartmouth. Has been a primary force behind legislation that would remove sexual assault allegations from the chain of command in the military, allowing a prosecutor, not the commander, to handle them. Has introduced a universal paid family leave bill every year between 2014-2019. As a proponent of the 2nd Amendment, she once had an "A" grade from the NRA. She currently holds an "F." Was a member of the Blue Dog Coalition while in Congress. Prior to her appointment to the Senate she held conservative positions on gun control and immigration. She since has apologized and expressed remorse over her past record. Timeline:

1991-2000 - Associate attorney at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell. During her tenure with the law firm, she represented tobacco company Philip Morris. 2000 - Special counsel to HUD Secretary Andrew Cuomo. 2001-2005 - Begins working for the law firm of Boies Schiller Flexner. 2006 - While running for Congress, on her campaign website, Gillibrand announces her support for the Secure Fence Act - a bill that authorized 700 miles of double-layered fence on the US-Mexico border, financed through more than a billion dollars in appropriations. January 3, 2007-January 26, 2009 - Represents New York's 20th Congressional District, a traditionally Republican area surrounding Albany. Gillibrand garnered 53% of the vote against four-term incumbent John Sweeney (R). January 23, 2009 - Appointed by Governor David Paterson to fill Hillary Clinton's US Senate seat in New York when Clinton was named US Secretary of State. She resigns her House seat and is sworn as a US Senator three days later. 2010 - Wins the special primary election for her appointed NY Senate seat with 76% of the vote defeating Gail Goode. 2012 - Is re-elected to the Senate with 72% of the vote. September 9, 2014 - Her memoir, "Off the Sidelines," is published. November 15, 2017 - Announces a bill to reform how allegations of sexual misconduct by staff members in congressional offices are handled. The Congressional Harassment Reform Act of 2017 would make it easier for victims to speak out about their experiences and would require yearly sexual harassment trainings for all personnel. December 6, 2017 - Is the first of 32 Democratic senators to call for the resignation of Al Franken after allegations of sexual misconduct from at least six women were made public. 2018 - Is re-elected to the Senate with 67% of the vote. January 16, 2019 - Announces she is forming an exploratory committee for the 2020 presidential race. March 11, 2019 - Gillibrand defends her handling of an investigation into allegations of sexual harassment made against a senior staffer in July 2018. The accuser told Gillibrand, her chief of staff Jess Fassler and general counsel Keith Castaldo that she was offering her resignation "because of how poorly the investigation and post-investigation was handled," according to a letter obtained by CNN and first reported by Politico. March 17, 2019 - Officially declares her Democratic candidacy for president via YouTube. Correction: This story has been updated to better characterize Gillibrand's past position on social issues.  China tests anti-ship missile in South China Sea, Pentagon says Hong Kong (CNN)China has test-fired at least one anti-ship missile in recent days in the area around the contested Spratly Islands in the South China Sea, the United States military confirmed Tuesday. "The Pentagon was aware of the Chinese missile launch from the man-made structures in the South China Sea near the Spratly Islands," spokesman Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn said. In a notice to mariners released on Saturday, China said it would be conducting military exercises until Wednesday in a large area of the South China Sea, north of the Spratly Islands. The missile test was part of those exercises, according to NBC News, which first reported the Chinese action. More tests were expected, NBC said, citing unnamed US officials. CNN has asked Chinese authorities for comment on the report. China has claimed almost the entire 1.3 million square mile South China Sea as its sovereign territory, including the area of the Spratlys, which are also claimed in part by the Philippines, Vietnam and Taiwan. To reinforce its claim, China has created and fortified artificial islands in the chain in the southern part of the South China Sea, despite a pledge made by President Xi Jinping during a White House visit in 2015 that the islands would not become military outposts. "What's truly disturbing about this act is that it's in direct contradiction to President Xi's statement ... that he would not militarize those man-made outposts," Eastburn said Tuesday. "I'm not going to speak on behalf of all the sovereign nations in the region, but I'm sure they agree that (China's) behavior is contrary to its claim to want to bring peace to the region and obviously actions like this are coercive acts meant to intimidate other (South China Sea) claimants," Eastburn added. But it's not just China that is flexing military muscles in the South China Sea. The US and its allies and partners are beefing up their presence in the region. In June, one of the US Navy's largest warships, the aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan, partnered with one of Japan's largest naval vessels, the helicopter destroyer JS Izumo, for exercises in the South China Sea. At the weekend, the US Navy announced the littoral combat ship USS Montgomery was making a port call in Davao, Philippines. The shallow-draft ship, designed for action near shorelines and around islands, is expected to be headed to Singapore as part of a stated US Navy plan to put forward-deploy two ships there this year. Meanwhile, warships from Australia, Canada and France have been in and around the South China Sea during the last 12-months, as the US encourages allies to support a free and open Indo-Pacific region. Tensions have been especially high in the Spratlys in the past month, after a Philippine fishing boat sank following a collision with a Chinese fishing boat on June 9. The Filipino fishermen claimed they were left to drown by the Chinese boat and were only rescued hours later by a Vietnamese boat. China claims its vessel felt threatened by swarming Philippine boats. The incident was enough for Manila to register a diplomatic protest with Beijing, though the government of President Rodrigo Duterte so far appears to be reluctant to push Beijing too hard on the issue. CNN's Ryan Browne contributed to this report. Henley Index: Japan and Singapore top 2019 list of world's most powerful passports It's been a three-horse race this year to be named the world's most powerful passport, with all top three contenders in Asia. Now, as we enter the second half of 2019, Japan and Singapore have held onto their position as the world's most travel-friendly passports, with South Korea dropping into second place. That's the view of the Henley Passport Index, which periodically measures the access each country's travel document affords. Singapore and Japan's passports have topped the rankings thanks to both documents offering access to 189 countries each. South Korea is now rubbing shoulders with Finland and Germany in the second tier, with citizens of all three countries able to access 187 jurisdictions around the world without a prior visa. Finland has benefited from recent changes to Pakistan's formerly highly restrictive visa policy. Pakistan now offers an ETA (Electronic Travel Authority) to citizens of 50 countries, including Finland, Japan, Malta, Spain, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates -- but not, notably, the United States or the UK. The European countries of Denmark, Italy and Luxembourg hold third place in the index, with visa-free/visa-on-arrival access to 186 countries, while France, Spain and Sweden are in the fourth slot, with a score of 185. Five years ago, the United States and the UK topped the rankings in 2014 -- but both countries have now slipped down to sixth place, the lowest position either has held since 2010. While the Brexit process has yet to directly impact on the UK's ranking, the Henley Passport Index press release observes, "with its exit from the EU now imminent, and coupled with ongoing confusion about the terms of its departure, the UK's once-strong position looks increasingly uncertain." The United Arab Emirates continues its ascent up the rankings, entering the top 20 for the first time in the index's 14-year history. In just five years, the UAE has more than doubled the number of jurisdictions its citizens can enter without a prior visa. At the other end of the scale, Afghanistan is once again at the bottom of the rankings, with its citizens needing a prior visa for all but 25 destinations worldwide. Dr. Christian H. Kaelin, Chairman of Henley & Partners and the creator of the passport index concept, says in the release: "With a few notable exceptions, the latest rankings from the Henley Passport Index show that countries around the world increasingly view visa-openness as crucial to economic and social progress." The best passports to hold midway through 2019 are: 1. Japan, Singapore (189 destinations) 2. Finland, Germany, South Korea (187) 3. Denmark, Italy, Luxembourg (186) 4. France, Spain, Sweden (185) 5. Austria, Netherlands, Portugal, Switzerland (184) 6. Belgium, Canada, Greece, Ireland, Norway, United Kingdom, United States (183) 7. Malta (182) 8. Czech Republic (181) 9. Australia, Iceland, Lithuania, New Zealand (180) 10. Latvia, Slovakia, Slovenia (179) The worst passports to hold Several countries around the world have visa-free or visa-on-arrival access to fewer than 40 countries. These include: 101. Bangladesh, Eritrea, Iran, Lebanon, North Korea (39 destinations) 102. Nepal (38) 103. Libya, Palestinian Territory, Sudan (37) 104. Yemen (33) 105. Somalia (31) 106. Pakistan (30) 107. Syria (29) 108. Iraq (27) 109. Afghanistan (25) Other indexes Henley & Partner's list is one of several indexes created by financial firms to rank global passports according to the access they provide to their citizens. The Henley Passport Index is based on data provided by the International Air Transport Authority (IATA) and covers 199 passports and 227 travel destinations. It is updated in real time throughout the year, as and when visa policy changes come into effect. Arton Capital's Passport Index takes into consideration the passports of 193 United Nations member countries and six territories -- ROC Taiwan, Macau (SAR China), Hong Kong (SAR China), Kosovo, Palestinian Territory and the Vatican. Territories annexed to other countries are excluded. Its 2019 index puts the UAE on top with a "visa-free score" of 173, followed by Finland, Luxembourg and Spain with 168, and, -- in joint third place with scores of 167 -- Denmark, Italy, Germany, Netherlands, Austria, Portugal, Switzerland, Japan, South Korea, Ireland and the United States. Hong Kong's Carrie Lam responds to protester takeover of government building Hong Kong (CNN)On the anniversary of Hong Kong's return to Chinese rule, a large group of protestors smashed through glass doors and stormed the government headquarters. The dramatic July 1 events have marked a break from Hong Kong's peaceful demonstrations against a controversial extradition bill. Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam condemned the violence in an early Tuesday morning press conference and pledged to take necessary legal action. "We saw two completely different scenes: one was a peaceful and rational parade... the other one was a heartbreaking, shocking, and law-breaking scene," she said. "Nothing is more important than the rule of law in Hong Kong." Just hours earlier, several hundred mostly young activists occupied the Legislative Council building for hours. They ransacked desks and filing cabinets and tore down portraits. They raised a black banner, that read: "There is no way left," mounting an open challenge to China and to Lam. Within minutes of protesters taking a collective decision to exit the building, police fired tear gas and used baton charges to disperse the crowd. Thirteen police officers were ultimately hospitalized after clashing with protesters, Police Commissioner Lo Wai-chung said Tuesday. "Hong Kong is a safe society and none of this violence is acceptable" he said, adding "police had no choice but to retreat" at moments. The extradition bill that sparked public outrage Monday was the 22nd anniversary of the semi-autonomous city's return to Chinese sovereignty. The date is marked annually with protests calling for greater freedoms. This year, however, escalating anger over the extradition bill boiled over into a pointed rebuke of Chinese rule. Critics feared the extradition bill could be used to send residents to mainland China for political or business offenses. After earlier protests, the extradition bill was shelved. But protests have not stopped, amid calls to scrap it completely. Lam said Tuesday there are no plans to restart the legislative process before it expires in 2020. Protesters' demands include the full withdrawal of the extradition bill and universal suffrage so the people have the right to vote for their chief executive and legislative council. Protesters used trolleys as battering rams to bust through the entrance, pry open metal shutters and occupy the government building. They set up barricades and opened a line of umbrellas in an attempt to hold the complex, but left en masse shortly after midnight, as hundreds of riot police began to descend on the site. Spray-painted messages in Cantonese and English on the walls of the legislative chamber called Lam's government a "murderous regime" and declared "Hong Kong is not China." The protestors' siege of the Legislative Council building was starkly different than a peaceful march just one street over, on the same day, where tens of thousands of Hong Kong citizens carried signs calling for greater democracy and an end to the extradition bill. Protesters had hoped to block or interrupt an official flag raising ceremony marking the occasion, attended by Lam. The ceremony was a rare public appearance for Lam, who was recently forced to publicly apologize for the introduction of the extradition bill last month which sparked public outrage. In her speech at the flag-raising ceremony Monday, Lam promised to "ease anxiety in the community, and to pave the way forward for Hong Kong." Protesters occupying the Legislative Council building on Monday hoisted a British-colonial-era flag, calling for more democracy -- the main demand of the 2014 Umbrella Movement, which immobilized the city's financial district for 79 days. Many in Hong Kong see the extradition bill as eroding special freedoms afforded to them under the "One Country, Two Systems" model, which was created during Hong Kong's handover from British to Chinese rule in 1997. The city maintains distinct and independent rule of law to China as part of that framework. Protesters also want to end characterizations of earlier protests as riots, and have called for the creation of an independent commission to look into accusations of police brutality. Many protesters are still angry over police use of tear gas and rubber bullets to force people off the streets on June 12, when protesters successfully blocked off the city's legislature and prevented lawmakers from debating the extradition bill. Beijing said on Monday that Britain has no responsibility toward the former colony and must stop interfering in what is a Chinese domestic affair. UK Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt said on Sunday that Hong Kong must maintain its "high degree of autonomy." Beijing stands behind controversial leader Carrie Lam While Beijing has stood by Lam, she is facing criticism from all sides for her handling of the crisis. Lam says the bill was her idea, not Beijing's, and she has taken responsibility for a rushed roll-out and failure to communicate with the public. Even much of the city's business community, traditionally conservative and unwilling to get too involved in politics, came out against the bill, and some pro-government figures criticized Lam for pushing it through the legislature against proper procedure. Lam justified that move as necessary in order to extradite a wanted murderer to Taiwan, but that justification was undermined by Taipei's statement in May that it would not accept any transfer under the controversial bill. Protests and anger over the bill reinvigorated an opposition movement that had appeared to be in the doldrums after repeated losses in the wake of the 2014 Umbrella Movement. Now Lam is facing not only continued demonstrations against the bill -- and demands for her resignation -- but also a return to the issue behind the 2014 protests: that Hong Kongers are not able to choose their own leader. A key reason Beijing was keen to keep Lam in place, even if she wanted to resign, is that losing her would require choosing another chief executive within six months. Currently that is done by an election committee heavily stacked in Beijing's favor, and renewing this process would be sure to restart an angry political debate that had been safely kicked down the road to 2022. Now that issue seems to be coming to the fore anyway, piling more pressure on Lam and creating new headaches for her bosses in Beijing.  Tech stocks soar after Trump reverses course on Huawei Hong Kong (CNN Business)A trade truce between the United States and China and the easing of restrictions on Huawei have sparked a tech rally. But not all stocks have been so lucky. Shares in companies that do business with the embattled Chinese tech firm zoomed higher on Monday. Foxconn, which assembles smartphones for Huawei, saw its shares jump 1.6% in Taiwan, while Foxconn Industrial Internet, a subsidiary that partners with Huawei on telecommunications equipment, rose 10% — the maximum daily limit — in Shanghai. China's Ningbo Exciton Technology, which supplies optical films to Huawei and other tech companies, gained 5.4%. Shares in the world's top contract chipmaker, TSMC, rose 4%. Unisplendour, one of China's largest chipmakers, finished the session up 6.4%. "Financial markets are showing their relief," said Brock Silvers, managing director of China-based private equity firm Kaiyuan Capital. "Equities are up broadly, and Huawei suppliers in particular are showing renewed confidence," he added. Even some American companies were getting in on the rally. Major US suppliers to Huawei like Intel (INTC), Qualcomm (QCOM), Broadcom (AVGO) and Micron (MICR) moved higher in premarket trading. Trump said Saturday at the G20 in Japan that "US companies can sell their equipment to Huawei," reversing an export ban that had been in place since May. Huawei, one of the largest smartphone manufacturers in the world, has become a major flash point in a larger battle between China and the United States. The American president also agreed with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, to restart trade discussions over the weekend. The developments helped spur the wider stock market higher on Monday. China's benchmark Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP) and Japan's Nikkei (N225) gained over 2%. Major European stock indexes opened higher. Silvers cautioned investors against going all-in too soon. "Celebration may be premature, as Trump can easily reinstate his Huawei ban should trade talks falter," he said. "While both parties clearly want a deal, we've yet to see any evidence that remaining issues are any closer to be resolved." The trade truce was bad news for another key bargaining chip in the US-China trade war. Stocks of companies that sell rare earths, minerals that are widely used in the tech industry, dropped sharply. China controls 90% of the world's rare earth production and has indicated it could use that to put pressure on the United States. JL Mag Rare-Earth, a top producer of the minerals, dropped 3.5% in Shenzhen on Monday. The stock has more than doubled in the past month since Xi visited the Jiangxi-based company on May 20, signaling that rare earths are a strategic resource that China wants to tighten its control over. Rival company Chengdu Galaxy Magnets fell 2.5%.  China's LGBTQ artists persevere as censors' grip tightens Charlene Liu had the perfect venue in mind -- a bomb shelter turned multi-purpose space -- to display art that she and fellow organizers had curated for this year's Shanghai Pride, China's longest-running LGBTQ celebration. Liu, who has run Shanghai Pride since its inception 11 years ago, said she was unfazed when the authorities demanded a last-minute venue change. CNN has reached out to the Shanghai government for response. "It's really part and parcel of organizing Pride every year," said Liu, who hails from Malaysia. "We have had similar issues (in the past), and we always have to have a plan B or plan C." This year's plan B was a gallery in the city's famous art district, M50. On June 8, the exhibition's opening proceeded smoothly, attracting a sizable crowd of art fans from the LGBTQ community, as well as curious passers-by. But a few days later, Liu said, officials ordered that some of the art be taken down with little explanation. The incident is telling of China's LGBTQ art scene today: Emerging from the underground but still struggling to find acceptance. Homosexuality is legal in China and, in 2001, the authorities removed it from an official list of mental disorders. But experts and activists say LGBTQ people in China still face persistent discrimination and prejudices from both the government and public. And despite last month's legalization of same-sex marriage in Taiwan, which Beijing considers a breakaway province, there is little prospect of the mainland following suit in the foreseeable future. Among the artists showing work at the Pride exhibition was Yang Yiliang, who incorporates Chinese folk art and other traditional influences into his LGBTQ-themed paintings. Five scrolls from his "Paper Grooms" series were on display, all featuring a prominent "double-happiness" symbol -- a Chinese character usually associated with weddings -- along with symmetrical same-sex animals intricately carved from red paper. In one piece, two smiling men sit on the "double-happiness" character flanked by two dragons; another shows a single man gazing longingly into the distance against a backdrop of pine trees, with two magpies in the foreground. Yang, 28, explained that, according to traditional Chinese culture, the trees represent strength while the birds symbolize an auspicious prospect, signifying the eventual public recognition of the gay community's fight for equality. The piece also hints at the fragility of marriage -- "as flimsy as paper," the artist said -- in the modern era. "Many contemporary art galleries are reluctant to display my pieces, telling me that my work is good but the subject is taboo," he said from his hometown in Changsha, central China. "Art exhibitions can reach a wider audience," he said, adding that he's mostly been cooperating with LGBTQ events like Shanghai Pride, as well as gay bars in major cities. "I want to let people know about our existence, our emotional needs and our inner feelings through traditional Chinese art forms." Safe spaces One establishment that has embraced artists like Yang is the Beijing nightclub, Destination. Opened 15 years ago, the centrally located gay club is wildly popular in the Chinese capital, attracting throngs of locals and visitors every weekend. Now occupying a four-story building, the venue has expanded beyond nighttime entertainment to include a fully programed community center, offering everything from yoga and dance classes to free HIV testing. A spacious multi-room gallery called Art.Des can be found on the third floor. "I thought it would be a good idea to use the space to do something different for the LGBTQ community," said Destination's co-owner, Edmund Yang. "Through this platform, people can have another perspective on what LGBTQ people are like." The gay businessman described the initial public reaction to Art.Des as a pleasant surprise, for the most part. But he noted that prejudices remain, citing an incident in which several artists were pressured by friends to pull out of a show due to Destination being a "gay venue." Admitting his own lack of artistic expertise, Yang says he aims to turn Art.Des into an "inclusive" space but relies on his friend Pierre Alivon, a French artist, to curate work for the gallery. The current exhibition, "Love Is Love," visualizes the title theme through paintings, photographs and sculptures to coincide with the LGBTQ Pride Month, which takes place globally throughout June. Expressing a preference for work by struggling young Chinese artists, Alivon said that the public's lack of understanding of queer-themed art poses a challenge to curators. "People would just call me and say, 'I'm gay, I'm an artist ... I paint gay sex' and expect to be selected," he said. Artist Guang Ye does sometimes paint sex, but he focuses on the beauty of masculine male bodies. His work has earned him the Art.Des curator's endorsement -- as well as a loyal following that includes a growing number of straight women. "I decided to paint what I was yearning," recalled the 34-year-old gay artist, who has painted more than 1,000 male bodies over the past eight years. "That's how I got started, and it's proven to be the right choice." Guang's oil paintings on display at Art.Des range from the rather innocuous "Water Polo," which highlights athletic bodies in motion to the more explicit "Bosom Buddies," which shows two strong men's torsos in tight white briefs, one man's hand grabbing the other's crotch. The artist also paints in watercolor and traditional Chinese ink, often blending Eastern and Western aesthetics to create exaggerated, muscular bodies in intimate or sexual settings. "These male bodies exist and they aren't scary monsters -- that's what I gently push people to ponder and reflect on through my work," Guang said. "I want to tell people that everybody, every body, needs to be treated gently." "No one barges into my studio to stop me from painting," he said of the creative environment for queer artists. "I believe it will get better. And when your work shines, people will be drawn to you." 'Cat-and-mouse game' with censors Another artist exhibiting at Art.Des is Gao Zhouyue, whose painting "Dawning" shows a church wedding between a transgender woman and her wife, witnessed by their three children. Inspired by the American TV show "Sense8", Gao says his piece is meant to be a testament to the fluidity of sexuality, as well as the transcendence of love. "Painting this one was a learning experience for me," said the 26-year-old artist, whose ex-boyfriend was the first subject of his queer-themed artwork. "It has taught me a lot about the transgender community." A graduate from China's most prestigious art school, the Central Academy of Fine Arts, Gao is known to place his models against religious backdrops -- something he attributes to his study of European murals. "I like the sacred and magnificent feelings found in churches," he said, noting that he uses material such as seashells, glass and gold foil to accentuate his work. "In the West, I know religion is a major obstacle to the LGBTQ rights movement," he added. "I want to convey the message that religion and the LGBTQ community can interact and communicate, and see their relationship evolve." In China, an officially atheist country under the ruling Communist Party, religion doesn't play much of a role. But government censors nonetheless appear vehemently opposed to the public dissemination of LGBTQ-related content, which has a disproportionate impact on Chinese queer filmmakers. Since 2016, Chinese censors have banned portrayals of what they see as "abnormal sexual behaviors," including gay and lesbian relationships, in TV and online shows. Filmmakers say regulating movies is also increasingly conservative and unpredictable -- albeit without an explicit ban on homosexuality. "This sense of uncertainty on censorship rules is the worst, because nobody is sure about anything," said Popo Fan, a prominent gay filmmaker who has lived in Berlin since 2017. "Unwritten rules lead to self-censorship, which is more terrible than censorship itself." Fan's latest short feature "Floss," which he shot in China during a visit last April, is about a gay man's fetish for his lover's teeth. The 33-year-old filmmaker, who just attended the movie's premiere at the Palm Springs International Short Film Festival in California, said the only way movies like this can be seen in China is through small private screenings. This sentiment is shared by Fan's fellow gay filmmaker Xiaogang Wei, who is also a leading LGBTQ rights activist in China. "For me, nothing has changed -- it's always been bad," said Wei, 43, who is working on a feature-length documentary about a Chinese drag queen seeking fame and fortune through livestreaming. "There's no way to distribute and screen my films -- reaching a mainstream audience is simply impossible." Both Wei and Fan recall 'a cat-and-mouse' game in the early years of the Beijing Queer Film Festival, with officials trying to shut down screenings. Film screenings from the annual event have since been hosted by Western embassies or their cultural centers. Having lived in self-imposed exile for two years, Fan reports an unmistakable drain of talent from China's independent filmmaking circle -- including queer artists. "Funding is hard because your film will never get past the censors ... and without a filming permit, you constantly worry about being stopped," he said. "The output has been lower because many people have left the country, while others, after doing one project, switch to commercial projects. It's just too difficult." Signs of hope Amid growing challenges, however, the artists and their allies seemed determined not to lose perspective -- or, most importantly, hope -- when it comes to the acceptance of their work and identities. Each had a positive story to tell: Painter Guang recounted how his poorly educated farmer parents embraced him when he told them he was gay; artist Gao remembered the surprise when an otherwise conservative professor approved his queer-themed final project without hesitation; filmmaker Fan described Chinese audiences' thirst for quality LGBTQ movies as a positive sign for the domestic film industry; and activist Wei pointed to the abundance of LGBTQ content across Chinese cyberspace, despite the censors' tightening grip; and Shanghai Pride organizer Liu noted the events' increasingly diverse attendance (more parents of gay children and more gay parents, she said). Art.Des founder Yang said his gallery and community center actually align with the authorities' goal of social stability, as they "create a sense of belonging for LGBTQ people." The tax accountant turned entrepreneur compared the periodic government crackdowns to the ups and downs of the stock market: "A little setback is OK as long as the overall direction is positive." "We just need to be careful not to have a direct run-in with the government," Yang added. "We don't cross their line and they let us flourish," he said. "Over time, we hope to shift the line in the direction that would give us more space." Canadian warship gets 'warm welcome' from fighter jets, Chinese media say Hong Kong (CNN)Two Chinese fighter jets buzzed a Canadian warship in the East China Sea earlier this week in what Chinese media called a "warm welcome." The incident between the frigate HMCS Regina and two Chinese Su-30 fighters took place Monday while the ship was in international waters off Shanghai, according to Matthew Fisher, a fellow at the Canadian Global Affairs Institute. "The formidable twin-tail Russian-built strike aircraft flew within 300 meters (1,000 feet) of the Canadian ship's bow, screaming past about 300 meters above the water," Fisher wrote in a posting on the institute's website. The Regina's captain told Fisher the Chinese jets didn't pose a danger to his ship, but Fisher's report said their flight was more aggressive than anything the (Canadian Navy) has seen before from Chinese fighter jets. CNN has reached out to the Canadian Defense Ministry for further comment. Chinese aircraft and ships had been watching the Canadian warship, and an accompanying replenishment ship, closely after it ended a visit to Vietnam and traveled through the South China Sea, Taiwan Strait and East China Sea, Fisher reported. Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman Ren Guoqiang on Thursday acknowledged the presence of the Canadian ships. "We were clear about the transit of Canadian vessels through the Taiwan Strait and monitored the vessels for the whole process," Ren said. However, the Chinese state-owned Global Times newspaper put out a post on its official Weibo account Thursday, seemingly mocking the encounter: "The Canadian ships have received a warm welcome from our people's navy and air force," said the post. Before the buzzing Monday, the closest Chinese jets had come to the Regina was several kilometers, according to Fisher. Canada is just one of several US allies and partners, including France, Japan and the United Kingdom, that have been sending ships into the South China Sea or through the Taiwan Strait this year. At the Shangri-La Dialogue security conference in Singapore earlier this month, then-acting US Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan encouraged other countries to conduct such activities to demonstrate a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific region. Beijing claims almost the entire 1.3 million square mile South China Sea as its sovereign territory and aggressively asserts its stake, with President Xi Jinping saying it will never give up "any inch of territory." The flyby of the Canadian warship comes during a time of heightened tensions between Canada and China, following the arrest of Huawei Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou in Canada in December 2018. Meng faces extradition to the US over allegations she helped Huawei evade US sanctions on Iran. The Chinese government claims the arrest is politically motivated and is trying stop the extradition from happening. Shortly after Meng's detention, two Canadians were taken into custody in China, former diplomat Michael Kovrig and businessman Michael Spavor. Both were formally arrested in May, accused of gathering and stealing "sensitive information and other intelligence" since 2017. Separately, Canadian man Robert Lloyd Schellenberg, who had previously been found guilty of trafficking drugs to China, was rapidly retried in January and sentenced to death. The Canadian government has joined with human rights organizations to call for the release of Kovrig and Spavor, describing their detentions as "arbitrary." CNN's Lily Lee and Ben Wescott contributed to this report. Period pain linked to nearly 9 days of lost productivity for a woman in a year (CNN)The real impact of menstruation on women and society is underestimated, researchers say, as a new study suggests period pain is linked to nearly nine days of lost productivity a year in workplaces and schools. Researchers surveyed 32,748 Dutch women between the ages of 15 and 45 to evaluate lost productivity associated with menstrual symptoms. They measured both time off from work or school, as well as working or studying while feeling ill -- what the study termed "presenteeism." The study, which was published Thursday, found that around 1 in 7, just under 14%, had taken time off from work or school during their period and 3.5% said that this happened during every, or nearly every, menstrual cycle. Some 81% of the Dutch women said they had been less productive as a result of their menstrual symptoms. On average, the researchers calculated, women were absent from work or school 1.3 days per year because of their period and, on average, productivity loss was equivalent to 8.9 days per year. "Women said that they weren't as productive as they could be while at work -- they needed to go to the toilet every hour or they had a headache and couldn't concentrate," said Theodoor Nieboer, an author of the report and a gynecologist at the Radboud University Medical Center in the Netherlands. He added that women under the age of 21 were around three times more likely than older women to say they had taken time off because of their menstrual symptoms. Still a taboo topic The study, which was published in the BMJ Open medical journal, is the largest of its kind. It also found that when women did call in sick because of period pain, only 1 in 5 told their employer or school the real reason for their absence. What's more, 68% of respondents said they wished they had the option of more flexible hours to work or study during their period. "Despite being almost two decades into the 21st century, discussions about [symptoms] may still be rather taboo," Nieboer said. "There's a need for greater openness about the impact of menstrual symptoms on work, and companies need to be more open about this with their female workers." Nieboer said he did fear that some employers might use the insights from the survey to discriminate against women, but added this was not the right message to take away. Around the world, 1.8 billion women menstruate. The real impact of menstruation was under-appreciated, he said. "Menstruation-related symptoms cause a great deal of lost productivity, and presenteeism is a bigger contributor to this than absenteeism," he said. "However, we shouldn't lose sight of the fact that there's plenty of reasons why men might be unproductive in the workplace." The authors said that their study did have some limitations. It relied on what women said in the survey rather than measuring actual productivity loss. Also, the respondents were recruited via social media, which may have introduced an element of selection bias, with women with more debilitating menstrual symptoms potentially being more likely to take part. Period leave? Menstrual or period leave has been presented as a possible solution for the occasions when a woman might need to stay home due to having uncomfortable symptoms related to her menstrual cycle. Across several Asian countries, menstrual leave is already offered to working women, Danielle Keiser told CNN last year. Keiser is founder of a global women's health organization called the Menstrual Health Hub. There are menstrual leave policies in Indonesia, Japan, Vietnam, South Korea, Taiwan and China, according to records from the Menstrual Health Hub, although it's often an entitlement that women don't feel they can take in male-dominated workplaces. In other parts of the world, menstrual leave policies have emerged more on a company-by-company basis. For instance, Coexist, a group based in the United Kingdom that hosts community spaces, allows employees who opt into its period policy to take time off, work from home, or consider other options such as altering their working hours during their periods. And in Australia, the Victorian Women's Trust, an advocacy group, offers employees paid days off for painful periods. CNN's Jacqueline Howard contributed to this report. Courtney Love Fast Facts (CNN)Here is a look at the life of Courtney Love, singer, songwriter and actress. Personal:

Birth date: July 9, 1964 Birth place: San Francisco, California Birth name: Love Michelle Harrison Father: Hank Harrison Mother: Linda Carroll Marriages: Kurt Cobain (1992-1994, his death); James Moreland (1989-1989, divorced) Children: with Kurt Cobain: Frances Bean Other Facts:

Widow of Kurt Cobain, former lead singer of Nirvana. Has made news for her multiple drug arrests and stints in rehabilitation programs. Nominated for four Grammy awards. Timeline:

1965 - After her parents' divorce, Love's mother takes her to live in New Zealand. 1970s-1980s - Returns to the United States and lives in Oregon and California. Is arrested for shoplifting and is sent to reform school. 1980 - Declares herself an emancipated minor. 1980s - Travels to Taiwan, Japan, England, and Alaska on her trust fund. Finds work as a stripper and sings with various rock bands. Forms her own group, Sugar Baby Dolls, with singer Kat Bjelland. 1986 - Appears in a small role in the film "Sid & Nancy" as Nancy Spungen's friend. 1989 - Forms the rock group "Hole" in Minneapolis with Kat Bjelland. 1990 - Hole's album "Rat Bastard" is released. 1991 - Begins dating musician Kurt Cobain. 1991 - Hole's album "Pretty on the Inside" is released. February 1992 - Marries Cobain in Hawaii. September 1992 - A Vanity Fair profile alleges Love took heroin while pregnant. Love first denies the charges, then later admits she took heroin early on in her pregnancy. April 5, 1994 - Cobain commits suicide in their Seattle home. April 12, 1994 - Hole's album "Live Through This" is released. 1996 - Plays Larry Flynt's wife, Althea, in the film "The People vs. Larry Flynt." 1997 - Is nominated for a Golden Globe for Best Performance by An Actress in a Motion Picture Drama for "The People vs. Larry Flynt." February 27, 1998 - "Kurt and Courtney," a documentary that raises questions about Love's potential involvement in Cobain's death, is released. 1999 - Stars in the film "Man on the Moon" with Jim Carrey. December 2000 - Files a lawsuit for stalking and harassment against Lesley Barber, the ex-wife of Jim Barber, Love's manager and ex-boyfriend. The case is eventually settled out of court. February 2001 - Sues her record label, Universal Music Group, accusing them of unfair accounting practices. May 2002 - Hole breaks up. October 2002 - Settles the lawsuit with Universal. February 4, 2003 - Is arrested at Heathrow Airport in London for disruptive and abusive behavior aboard a Virgin Airlines flight. October 2, 2003 - Is arrested for disorderly conduct outside Jim Barber's house after smashing his windows. After a possible drug overdose, she is arrested on two counts of felony drug possession. Temporary custody of daughter, Frances Bean, is given to Cobain's mother. February 10, 2004 - Releases her first solo album "America's Sweetheart." March 17, 2004 - Bares her chest on The Late Show with David Letterman. April 2004 - Max Wallace and Ian Halperin's book, "Love and Death," supports the conspiracy theory that Love was involved in and responsible for Cobain's death. May 13, 2004 - Pleads not guilty to charges of assault and reckless endangerment for a March 18th incident at a concert where she allegedly threw a microphone stand that hit a fan on the head. May 25, 2004 - Pleads guilty to a misdemeanor count of being under the influence of a controlled substance and agrees to enter a drug rehabilitation program. June 9, 2004 - Is charged with assault with a deadly weapon for an April 2004 incident in which Love allegedly attacked a female with a bottle and metal flashlight at Jim Barber's house. October 1, 2004 - Love is sued by New Act Travel, a travel agency that claims she ordered nearly $50,000 in airline tickets, but wouldn't pay. October 20, 2004 - Pleads guilty to disorderly conduct for the microphone stand incident in March. She is fined and ordered into a drug rehabilitation program. November 10, 2004 - Pleads not guilty to the assault charges for the April 2004 incident at Barber's home. January 11, 2005 - Is granted full custody of her daughter. February 10, 2005 - Love enters plea deals with prosecutors for the assault and drug charges. She must take anger management classes and is sentenced to three years probation. September 16, 2005 - Is sentenced to 180 days in a live-in drug treatment center for violating her probation. November 19, 2005 - Judge Rand Rubin permits Love to enroll in an outpatient rehabilitation facility, orders her to undergo drug testing, and extends her probation to March 2007. April 13, 2006 - Sells interest in the music publishing rights of her late husband for $50 million. December 11, 2006 - Judge ends Love's probation early in the drug and assault case. March 1, 2007 - A lawsuit is filed by Beau Monde, the drug rehabilitation center where Love stayed in 2005, claiming Love has not paid her $181,000 bill for treatment. A year later the case is settled out of court. March 8, 2008 - Love reports the loss of millions of dollars in an identity theft scam where thieves used her late husband's identity to purchase a multi-million dollar home in New Jersey. March 2009 - Fashion designer Dawn Simorangkir sues Love for libel, accusing the singer of posting disparaging remarks about her on Twitter and MySpace. December 11, 2009 - Temporary guardianship of her daughter is given to Cobain's mother and sister. March 3, 2011 - As part of a legal settlement for the 2009 Twitter defamation case, Love agrees to pay fashion designer Simorangkir $430,000. May 4, 2015 - "Montage of Heck," a documentary on the life of Cobain airs on HBO. The documentary is authorized by both Love and Frances Bean.  Nike pulls products in China after designer sparks social media outrage Hong Kong (CNN Business)Nike has stopped selling some products in China after a fashion designer's support for protests in Hong Kong sparked a social media backlash. The US retail giant said in a statement Thursday that it had decided to remove some of its goods "based on feedback from Chinese consumers." "We have withdrawn from China a small number of products that were designed by a collaborator," a Nike (NKE) spokesperson told CNN Business. The company did not respond when asked to provide more details. The Financial Times reported Wednesday that Nike had pulled a line of sneakers made in partnership with Japanese streetwear label Undercover, which is led by designer Jun Takahashi. Chinese retailer YY.com said in a statement on its official social media account that it would not stock Undercover x Nike Daybreak shoes after "an urgent notice issued by the Nike brand." Undercover faced sharp criticism over recent comments about Hong Kong protests against a controversial bill that would have allowed the extradition of criminal suspects to mainland China. Many demonstrators feared the proposed law could be used to deport activists or political targets from Hong Kong, which for decades has operated under the policy of "one country, two systems." Earlier this month, Undercover posted a snap of the protests to its Instagram Story, captioned "No Extradition To China." "Go Hong Kong," it added in Chinese. Some social media users in mainland China expressed outrage over the post. On Weibo, China's version of Twitter, some vowed to throw out their Nike sneakers. One user posted a photo of shoes in a trash can. "There is one China," another user wrote, adding that they were offended by the studio's comments. The same user uploaded a photo showing the "Undercover" logo on a Nike shoe crossed out. Undercover declined to comment. China is one of Nike's largest and fastest-growing markets. It's also a key manufacturing hub, with about a quarter of Nike's footwear and apparel being made there in the 2018 fiscal year. This isn't the first time foreign retailers have run into trouble in China. Last year, US retailer Gap withdrew a product from the market after customers complained that a map of China had left out Taiwan and other islands claimed by Beijing in the South China Sea. Japan's Muji was later fined by Shanghai authorities after it was discovered that the company had imported a batch of coat hangers wrapped in packaging that described Taiwan as a country. Nike was lauded last year for making Colin Kaepernick the star of a major marketing campaign. Kaepernick and other NFL players had protested police brutality before games. Serenitie Wang and Yoko Wakatsuki contributed reporting. A Chinese invasion of Taiwan would be a bloody, logistical nightmare Taiwan (CNN)Roaring out of the sky, an F-16V fighter jet lands smoothly to rearm and refuel on an unremarkable freeway in rural Taiwan, surrounded by rice paddies. In different circumstances, this could be alarming sight. Taiwan's fighter pilots are trained to land on freeways between sorties in case all of the island's airports have been occupied or destroyed by an invasion. Luckily, this was a training exercise. There's only really one enemy that Taiwan's armed forces are preparing to resist -- China's People's Liberation Army (PLA). And as China's reputation as an economic and military superpower has grown in recent years, so too has that threat of invasion, according to security experts. Taiwan has been self-governed since separating from China at the end of a brutal civil war in 1949, but Beijing has never given up hope of reuniting with what it considers a renegade province. At a regional security conference in June, Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe said: "If anyone dares to split Taiwan from China, the Chinese military has no choice but to fight at all costs for national unity." In some shops in mainland China, you can buy postcards and T-shirts emblazoned with patriotic emblems promoting the retaking of Taiwan. But for seven decades, China has resisted attacking Taiwan partly for political reasons, including the prospect of a US intervention and the potential heavy human toll. But the practical realities of a full-blown invasion are also daunting for the PLA, according to experts. Ferrying hundreds of thousands of troops across the narrow Taiwan Strait to a handful of reliable landing beaches, in the face of fierce resistance, is a harrowing prospect. Troops would then have a long slog over Taiwan's western mudflats and mountains to reach the capital, Taipei. Not only that, but China would face an opponent who has been preparing for war for almost 70 years. At mass anti-invasion drills in May, Taiwan military spokesman Maj. Gen. Chen Chung-Chi said the island knew it had to always be "combat-ready." "Of course, we don't want war, but only by gaining our own strength can we defend ourselves," he said. "If China wants to take any action against us, it has to consider paying a painful price." Difficult and bloody It could be easy to assume that any invasion of Taiwan by Beijing would be brief and devastating for Taipei: a David and Goliath fight between a tiny island and the mainland's military might, population and wealth. With nearly 1.4 billion people, the People's Republic of China has the largest population in the world. Taiwan has fewer than 24 million people -- a similar number to Australia. China has the fifth largest territory in the world, while Taiwan is the size of Denmark or the US state of Maryland. And Beijing runs an economy that is second only to the United States, while Taiwan's doesn't rank in the world's top 20. But perhaps most pertinently, China has been building and modernizing its military at an unprecedented rate, while Taiwan relies on moderate US arms sales. In sheer size, the PLA simply dwarfs Taiwan's military. China has an estimated 1 million troops, almost 6,000 tanks, 1,500 fighter jets and 33 navy destroyers, according to the latest US Defense Department report. Taiwan's ground force troops barely number 150,000 and are backed by 800 tanks and about 350 fighter aircraft, the report found, while its navy fields only four destroyer-class ships. Under Chinese President Xi Jinping, the PLA has rapidly modernized, buoyed by rises in military spending and crackdowns on corruption in the army's leadership. "China's leaders hope that possessing these military capabilities will deter pro-independence moves by Taiwan or, should deterrence fail, will permit a range of tailored military options against Taiwan and potential third-party military intervention," according to a 2019 US Defense Intelligence Agency report on China's military. Yet while China hawks in the media might beat the drum of invasion, an internal China military study, seen by CNN, revealed that the PLA considers an invasion of Taiwan to be extremely difficult. "Taiwan has a professional military, with a strong core of American-trained experts," said Ian Easton, author of "The Chinese Invasion Threat" and research fellow at the Project 2049 Institute, as well as "highly defensible" terrain. In his book he described an invasion by China as "the most difficult and bloody mission facing the Chinese military." The plan to take Taiwan China's Taiwan invasion plan, known internally as the "Joint Island Attack Campaign," would begin with a mass, coordinated bombing of Taiwan's vital infrastructure -- ports and airfields -- to cripple the island's military ahead of an amphibious invasion, according to both Easton and Sidharth Kaushal, a research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies. At the same time, the Chinese air force would fly over the Taiwan Strait and try to dominate the island's air space. Once the PLA was satisfied it had suitably disabled Taiwan's air and naval forces, Kaushal said soldiers would begin to invade on the west coast of the island. The island's rocky, mountainous east coast is considered too inhospitable and far from mainland China. The amphibious invasion needed to put troops on Taiwan, however, could be the biggest hurdle facing the PLA. In its 2019 report to Congress, the US Department of Defense said China -- which has one of the largest navies in Asia -- had at its command 37 amphibious transport docks and 22 smaller landing ships, as well as any civilian vessels Beijing could enlist. That might be enough to occupy smaller islands, such as those in the South China Sea, but an amphibious assault on Taiwan would likely require a bigger arsenal -- and there is "no indication China is significantly expanding its landing ship force," the report said. That makes it vital for Beijing to neutralize Taiwan's navy and air force in the early stages of an attack, Kaushal said. "The Taiwanese air force would have to sink around 40% of the amphibious landing forces of the PLA in order to render this sort of mission infeasible," he said. Essentially, that's only about 10 to 15 ships, he added. If they did make it across the strait, the PLA would still need to find a decent landing spot for its ships. China's military would be looking for a landing site both close to the mainland, and a strategic city, such as Taipei, with nearby port and airport facilities. That leaves just 14 potential beaches, Easton said -- and it's not only the PLA that knows it. Taiwanese engineers have spent decades digging tunnels and bunkers in potential landing zones along the coast. Furthermore, the backbone of Taiwan's defense is a fleet of vessels capable of launching anti-ship cruise missiles, on top of an array of ground-based missiles, and substantial mines and artillery on the coastline. "Taiwan's entire national defense strategy, including its war plans, are specifically targeted at defeating a PLA invasion," Easton said. Chinese troops could be dropped in from the air, but a lack of paratroopers in the PLA makes it unlikely. If the PLA held a position on Taiwan, and could reinforce with troops from the mainland to face off about 150,000 Taiwan troops, as well as more than 2.5 million reservists, it would have to push through the island's western mud flats and mountains, with only narrow roads to assist them, towards Taipei. Finally, the mobilization of amphibious landing vessels, ballistic missile launchers, fighters and bombers, as well as hundreds of thousands of troops, would give Taiwan plenty of advance warning of any attack, Kaushal said. "It's extremely unlikely that the invasion could come as a bolt from the blue," Kaushal added. 'The bad guy in the neighborhood' There is, of course, one final deterrent to any PLA invasion of Taiwan. It isn't clear whether or not such an attack by China would spark an intervention by the United States on Taipei's behalf. Washington has been a longtime ally of the island, selling weapons to the Taiwan government and providing implicit military protection from Beijing. Easton said that, at present, the US would likely intervene in Taiwan's favor, both to protect investment by US companies on the island and reassure American allies in the region, who are also facing down a resurgent PLA in the East and South China seas. Collin Koh Swee Lean, research fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies' Maritime Security Program in Singapore, said there would also be "immense political consequences" from taking over Taiwan, in the event of a successful China invasion. "It will likely mean that China will be seen as the bad guy in the neighborhood, who uses force," he said. "It will alienate some regional partners and the good will which China has been trying to build over the years will evaporate. And it will set China on a collision course with the US." But Taipei isn't taking anything for granted. On the sidelines of the massive Han Guang drills, Taiwan's Maj. Gen. Chen pointed out the hundreds of spectators who had come out to watch and support the island's military. "These exercises let people know the national army of the Republic of China is ready," he said. Taiwan is taking no chances. CNN's Serenitie Wang contributed to this article. New satellite images may reveal China's next aircraft carrier Hong Kong (CNN)New satellite images published by a US think tank may provide the world's first look at China's next aircraft carrier, as construction progresses on a mysterious large vessel in a shipyard outside Shanghai. Significant new activity at the Jiangnan Shipyard was captured in satellite images from April, published by Washington-based think tank the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). According to CSIS, they show a massive bow and main hull section of a large vessel under construction. At points, the hull section is as wide as 40 meters (131 feet). Experts said while it was difficult to be sure, the size and scale of the new vessel strongly suggested China's much-anticipated new aircraft carrier, referred to as Type 002. "What we are seeing at Jiangnan is consistent with what we would expect for the build of the Type 002. The vessel under construction is rather large, so that limits what else it could be," CSIS analyst Matthew Funaiole said. Rumors that the Chinese military was constructing a third, more modern aircraft carrier have been circling for more than a year. It was only in November that state media Xinhua first hinted at a new vessel. "Six years have passed, our (first) domestic carrier has been trialed, entry into service is just around the corner. The new aircraft carrier has also been built on the slipway," the article said. The US Department of Defense has estimated that it could be completed as early as 2022. China currently has one aircraft carrier in operation, the Liaoning. Another is undergoing sea trials: the unnamed Type 001a, the country's first domestically built aircraft carrier. Funaiole said with three operational aircraft carriers in its fleet, China would be joining "an exclusive club of countries." Director of the International Security Program at Sydney's Lowy Institute, Sam Roggeveen, said while China's first two carriers are variations on an older Soviet-era design, the Type 002 is expected to have more in common with advanced US vessels. "The previous two had what they call a ski jump ramp which allows aircraft to take off without any mechanical assistance," he said, adding the new model is likely to have a more-advanced catapult launch system. "You can launch more aircraft, and heavier aircraft, which effectively means the ship becomes much more capable." Rapid naval expansion In the past few years, China's navy has expanded at an increasingly rapid pace. Between 2016 and 2017, 32 new ships were commissioned by the PLA, according to US government reports. In comparison, the US commissioned 13. Since 2014, China has launched more submarines, warships, principal amphibious vessels and auxiliaries than the total number of ships currently serving in the navies of Germany, India, Spain, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, according to a 2018 report by think tank IISS. Production capacity is still increasing as well. Satellite images of Jiangnan Shipyard outside of Shanghai showed it had increased in size by 64% over the past decade. Beijing's domestically-produced aircraft carrier, the Type 001a, is likely to be put into service in 2019, according to a new Pentagon report, which said China's People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) was developing into a "global force." "The PLAN's ability to perform missions beyond the first (Pacific) island chain is modest but growing as it gains more experience operating in distant waters and acquires larger and more advanced platforms," the Pentagon report said. But Roggeveen said it could be a while before the Chinese navy began to steadily churn out aircraft carriers at the rate it has other ships. "China's now on such a steep learning curve that they're not really at the point where they can start building several of these without learning and refining their design as they go," he said. "They're aiming for something that I think they can't get in one leap."  South China Sea: Satellite image shows Chinese fighter jets deployed to contested island Hong Kong (CNN)A satellite image obtained by CNN shows China has deployed at least four J-10 fighter jets to the contested Woody Island in the South China Sea, the first known deployment of fighter jets there since 2017. The image was taken Wednesday and represents the first time J-10s have been seen on Woody or any Chinese-controlled islands in the South China Sea, according to ImageSat International, which supplied the image to CNN. The deployment comes as tensions remain high in the South China Sea and Chinese President Xi Jinping prepares to meet United States President Donald Trump at the G-20 summit in Japan next week. Analysts who looked at the satellite photo for CNN said both the placement of the planes out in the open and accompanying equipment is significant and indicates the fighter jets were on the contested island for up to 10 days. "They want you to notice them. Otherwise they would be parked in the hangars," said Peter Layton, a former Royal Australian Air Force officer and fellow at the Griffith Asia Institute. "What message do they want you to take from them?" Carl Schuster, a former director of operations at the US Pacific Command's Joint Intelligence Center, said the deployment is designed to "demonstrate it is their territory and they can put military aircraft there whenever they want." "It also makes a statement that they can extend their air power reach over the South China Sea as required or desired," Schuster said. The J-10 jets have a combat range of about 500 miles (740 kilometers), putting much of the South China Sea and vital shipping lands within reach, Schuster said. The four planes are not carrying external fuel tanks, the analysts said. That suggests they were to be refueled on the island, so the plan may be to keep them there awhile. "It could be an early training deployment as part of getting the J-10 squadron operationally ready for an ADIZ (air defense identification zone) declaration," Layton said. "This activity may be the new normal." China said in 2016 it reserved the right to impose an ADIZ over the South China Sea, which would require aircraft flying over the waters to first notify Beijing. It set up an ADIZ over the East China Sea in 2013, prompting an outcry from Japan and the United States, but the zone has not been fully enforced. Woody Island, known as Yongxing in China, is the largest of the Paracel chain, also known as the Xisha Islands in China. The Paracels sit in the north-central portion of the 1.3 million-square-mile South China Sea. They are also claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan, but have been occupied by China since 1974, when Chinese troops ousted a South Vietnamese garrison. The past several years have seen Beijing substantially upgrade its facilities on the islands, deploying surface-to-air missiles, building 20 hangars at the airfield, upgrading two harbors and performing substantial land reclamation, according to the Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative. Woody Island has served as a blueprint for Beijing's more prominent island-building efforts in the Spratly chain to the south, AMTI said in a 2017 report. The appearance of the J-10s on Woody Island comes just over a year after China sent its H-6K long-range bombers to the island for test flights for the first time. The PLA claimed that mission was a part of China's aim to achieve a broader regional reach, quicker mobilization, and greater strike capabilities. "The islands in the South China Sea are China's territory," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said after the bomber flights. "The relevant military activities are normal trainings and other parties shouldn't over-interpret them." A military expert, Wang Mingliang, was quoted in a Chinese statement as saying the training would hone the Chinese air force's war-preparation skills and its ability to respond to various security threats in the region. In 2017, a report in China's state-run Global Times, said fighter jets -- J-11s -- were deployed to Woody Island for the first time, with the new hangars able to protect the warplanes from the island's high heat and humidity. That report said such hangars would be useful on other Chinese islands to greatly enhance Beijing's control over the South China Sea.  Fact-checking Trump's ABC interview Washington (CNN)In an extensive interview with ABC's George Stephanopoulos that aired Sunday evening. President Donald Trump made several factual blunders and repeated many of his favorite incorrect claims. Here's a look. Veterans Choice In touting his policies to expand defense spending and strengthen the military, the President took credit for improving the Department of Veterans Affairs, specifically expanding health care choices for veterans. "The vets-- the VA was in horrible shape," said Trump. "Now, they have choice. And nobody could get choice. John McCain couldn't get it. Nobody could get it. They tried for years. They couldn't get it." Facts First: Trump is rewriting history. The Veterans Choice Program was signed into law by President Barack Obama in 2014 and was co-sponsored by Senator John McCain. Trump signed a bill to continue the program and eventually consolidated other programs under the new Veterans Community Care Program. Veterans Choice aimed to expand veteran's access to health care by increasing the number of medical staff in the VA system as well as allowing those who met certain criteria (either from wait time or distance to a VA facility) to see doctors outside of the VA system. The bill signed by Trump in June of 2018, the VA MISSION Act, will consolidate several different VA health programs into the new Veterans Community Care Program. The program was set to start this summer, and for the year between the VA MISSION Act provided $5.2 billion to continue the Veterans Choice Program. The bill also expanded veteran's ability to take their VA benefits to private doctors. Tariffs When Stephanopoulos asserted that Americans are paying for the tariffs on China, Trump retorted "No, they're not." "China subsidizes their product in order to keep people working," Trump said before going on to argue that many companies were also moving out of China in order to avoid the tariffs. "So there is no tariff." Facts First: Trump is flatly wrong on this notion. US consumers and companies pay a large chunk of the tariffs Trump has placed on China. In addition, while there is evidence that US importers are shifting part of their production outside China, there isn't much to suggest there's a mass exodus of companies relocating away from China. Economists at Goldman Sachs estimate that 40% of the cost of tariffs has been passed on to consumers, with producers and retailers taking on the rest. According to a study from economists at Princeton, Columbia and the New York Federal Reserve, by the end of 2018 US companies and consumers were paying $3 billion a month more, plus $1.4 billion in additional losses, because of these new tariffs, mostly on China. In their Economic Report published in March, Trump's own administration admitted that despite any "benefits" which the tariffs may have are offset by the "costs paid by consumers in the form of higher prices and reduced consumption." So yes, Americans are paying these tariffs. As for Trump's claim that companies are fleeing China to avoid paying tariffs, it's difficult to measure how prevalent that trend is. Or if it's even happening at all. US imports from countries outside of China have increased in the first four months of 2019 compared to last year: 22% from Taiwan, 17% from South Korea, 38% from Vietnam, and 13% from Bangladesh. But part of this increase could be part of an already upward trend of importing more from countries outside of China and from the strong US economy, which leads to higher imports overall. US Census Bureau trade data published this month noted that US importers are taking in 12% less from China this year. While this is a significant number it's difficult to argue that "many" companies are moving out of China. Additionally, there are a large number of products made exclusively in China due to the interdependence of global supply chains. As Facts First has previously noted, for example, many raw materials integral to the US chemical industry now fall under Trump's tariffs and are "unavailable outside of China," Jennifer Abril, president of the Society of Chemical Manufacturers & Affiliates told CNN in May. Clinton colluded Stephanopoulos pressed Trump on the most damning portions of the Mueller report, including the dozens of contacts between Trump's team and Russians. The report said numerous Trump associates were drawn into the Russian web and took meetings with Kremlin-tied figures who offered dirt on Hillary Clinton, but they did not cross the line into a criminal conspiracy. In his answer, Trump ignored these findings and attacked his 2016 opponent. "What about Hillary Clinton?" Trump asked. "Hillary Clinton conspired with Russia. She had somebody that came out of Russia. They got information from Russia. Excuse me. Hillary Clinton was totally involved with it. If you talk about collusion with Russia take a look at Christopher Steele, all his contacts with Russia which by the way she paid for, and turned out to be a phony deal, which everyone is now admitting that. No George, all I want is the truth." Facts First: Trump is lying about Clinton by making up allegations that she colluded with the Russians in 2016. He's also twisting the facts about the Steele dossier, and is creating a false equivalency between his team's contacts with Russians and Clinton's ties to the dossier. For starters, there is absolutely no evidence that "Clinton conspired with Russia" like Trump claimed. Mueller's mandate was to investigate Russian meddling in the 2016 election and whether any Americans - not just Trump aides -- were involved in those efforts. The report said nothing about connections between the Clinton campaign and the Russian government or the Internet Research Agency, the Kremlin-connected troll farm that spread propaganda to US audiences. Trump then turned to the infamous Steele dossier, the series of private intelligence memos that former British spy Christopher Steele wrote in the final months of the 2016 campaign. The memos contained details about Russian meddling that pre-dated public announcements about Russia's activities by the US government. They also alleged that Trump colluded with the Kremlin. Some claims have been debunked, while others have held up over time; some remain unproven while others are partially true. Trump is wrong when he says it was all "phony." One of the main claims in the Steele dossier -- that the Trump campaign engaged in a widespread conspiracy of collusion with the Russians -- was not established by Mueller. But the President is wrong that Steele is "somebody that came out of Russia." Steele is a British citizen. He lived in Russia as an undercover spy, but his allegiance was to the United Kingdom. The UK is one of America's closest allies for intelligence-sharing. Steele's strong track record made him a trusted and valuable informant for the FBI and other US government agencies. Trump is also wrong that Clinton "was totally involved" in the Steele dossier. There is no evidence that she was directly involved, and her campaign chairman testified to Congress that he didn't know about it before the 2016 election. But Clinton's campaign funded Steele's work. They paid a law firm, which hired an opposition research company, which brought on Steele. On Monday morning, Clinton tweeted a response to Trump's claims she colluded with Russia, calling them "outlandish." Rebuffing Russian outreach Trump mischaracterized a key finding from the Mueller report. He claimed: "Mueller said that we rebuffed Russia, that we pushed them away, that we weren't interested. Read the report." Facts First: This is only half the story, and it is a very misleading representation of the Mueller report. Trump omitted the part where Mueller said that some members of Trump's campaign eagerly accepted meetings with Russians and even solicited their help on the 2016 election. Here's what the Mueller report said about this: "In sum, the investigation established multiple links between Trump Campaign officials and individuals tied to the Russian government. Those links included Russian offers of assistance to the Campaign. In some instances, the Campaign was receptive to the offer, while in other instances the Campaign officials shied away." This isn't the first time Trump made this misleading claim. The whole truth is much more nuanced. Sometimes the Russians were rebuffed, sometimes they were welcomed. Trump's own son, Donald Trump Jr., eagerly took a meeting with a Russian lawyer in June 2016 after being told that she was bringing damaging information about Clinton on behalf of the Kremlin. Ultimately, the investigation did not establish that any of these contacts broke the law.  Cooperation with Mueller Defending his response to the Mueller investigation, Trump said he was "the most transparent in history" and touted the fact that he provided Mueller with 1.5 million pages of documents. He also said "I gave them four or five hundred witnesses" to be interviewed by investigators.  Facts First: It's true that Trump gave Mueller's team broad access to interview White House officials and read their internal notes, which proved pivotal to the investigation. But that group represents only a small slice of the 500 witnesses Mueller interviewed. And perhaps most importantly, Trump refused multiple requests from investigators for a sit-down interview.  Whenever Trump touts his "transparency" with the Mueller investigation, he never mentions his adamant refusal to agree to a sit-down interview. While Trump made his aides available for interviews, he agreed only to answer written questions about collusion, but not obstruction. Mueller made it clear that Trump's responses were "incomplete" and generally insufficient.  There are many other reasons why Trump is not "the most transparent" president in US history, including his refusal to release his tax returns and his fight to block Congressional subpoenas to gain access to his financial statements.  Trump also exaggerated the number of witnesses he "gave" to Mueller so they could testify. Mueller interviewed 500 witnesses, but Trump could only control the testimony of White House aides. More than two dozen Trump administration officials voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel. The fruits of those interviews created the foundation of the obstruction inquiry.  Federal investigators interviewed hundreds of people Trump didn't have any control over. For example, Mueller's team spoke to Russian banker Petr Aven, conservative author and conspiracy theorist Jerome Corsi, and the translator at the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting.  However, to Trump's credit, he did not invoke executive privilege or go to court to prevent Mueller's team from interviewing White House aides of reviewing their documents. Trump says Putin helped Clinton  Trump claimed the Russians "were also helping the Clinton campaign," and later said Russian President Vladimir Putin "would much rather have Hillary Clinton be president right now."  Facts First: Trump is entitled to his own views. But he stands alone in his belief that the Russians tried to help Clinton's campaign in 2016. The US intelligence community announced after the 2016 election that the Kremlin tried to help Trump, a conclusion that has been endorsed by all of Trump's handpicked officials to lead the intelligence agencies.  The stunning assessment that the Russian government tried to help Trump was made public in a January 2017 report featured unanimous conclusions from the FBI, the CIA and the National Security Agency. The report was prepared during the Obama administration but Trump's appointees to lead these US intelligence agencies have endorsed the report and its findings.  This isn't about collusion or coordination with the campaign. It's about the wide-ranging Russian campaign to influence Americans, largely in Trump's favor. For instance, Facebook acknowledged that Russian propaganda reached 126 million Americans on its platform both before and after the election.  The Russians hacked Democratic targets and released their emails through WikiLeaks at pivotal moments in the campaign, including days before the Democratic National Convention and after the leak of the Access Hollywood tape that featured Trump making offensive comments about women. These hacks, carried out by Russian military officers, gave Trump a massive boost. Trump on Russian 'bloggers'  On four occasions in his ABC interview, Trump used the word "bloggers" to describe Russian hackers.  "They also said that there were bloggers in Moscow," Trump said. "And they said specifically about the bloggers in Moscow, had nothing to do with Trump, had nothing to do with -- and there were like 32 or 36 bloggers. We have nothing to do with bloggers in Moscow."  Facts First: They weren't bloggers. They were sophisticated hackers who worked for the Russian military, according to court filings. Trump's language downplays the seriousness of their actions, which Mueller himself described as "a concerted attack on our political system."  According to dictionary definitions, a blogger is someone who writes for a blog, which is an online publication or personal website that typically features commentary on a specific topic.  The Russians hackers who meddled in the 2016 election were intelligence officers who worked for Russia's military intelligence agency, known as the GRU.  "Russian intelligence officers who were part of the Russian military launched a concerted attack on our political system," Mueller said in his only public statement about the investigation.  Trump's comments diminish the role of the Russian government in the attack. Interestingly, Putin has also sought to distance the Russian state from the hacks, saying that "patriotic hackers" might have meddled in American politics, but they were not directed by the Kremlin.  That's just not true, according to Mueller, whose office indicted a dozen GRU officers. They were accused of hacking Democratic targets in 2016 and sharing the spoils with WikiLeaks. Debates Stephanopoulos asked Trump how it was that several Republican senators who were initially skeptical of Trump eventually came around to support him. Trump pointed to the 2016 presidential debates and how, he said, "they found out I am very smart and I know what I'm doing." "I had, what, 15 debates and we won every debate," said Trump. "According to every poll, I mean I can only tell you by the polls. But every poll, they had many polls, doing many debates, I never lost one poll, I think they've gained a certain respect." Facts First: Trump did not, according to polling, win every debate he participated in during the 2016 presidential campaign. In a Fox News poll on the first GOP presidential debate in August 2015, voters were asked who performed the best and worst during the debate. Fox News combined these scores, leaving Trump in last place with -13 points and Carly Fiorina in first with +12 points. Among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents who watched one or both of the back-to-back debates in September 2015, Trump came in third, with 11%, behind Marco Rubio (14%) and Carly Fiorina (52%), when respondents were asked which candidate did the best job during the debates, according to a CNN poll. During the December 2015 debate among GOP presidential hopefuls, Trump's luck changed. He came in first in a CNN poll, winning with 33% among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents. (Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas came in second, behind by 5 points.) In a CBS News poll on the GOP debate in February 2016, Trump came in second (24%), behind Rubio (32%), among Republicans and independents who were asked what candidate they thought did the best job. Trump told Stephanopoulos that he won all 15 debates. Since there were 12 primary debates and three general debates, it would appear that Trump is also claiming that he won the three debates with Hillary Clinton. When looking at the three debates between Trump and Clinton, Clinton won all three debates, among all those polled by CNN. Among Republicans, however, Trump won all three debates, gradually going up from 55% to 68% and 74%, whereas, among Democrats, Clinton consistently stayed around 90%. Pre-existing conditions protections When Stephanopoulos asked the President whether his drive to overturn Obamacare equates to abandoning those with preexisting conditions, Trump denied it. "Preexisting conditions-- I was for preexisting conditions. And I still-- you know, I'm very much for preexisting conditions," he said. Facts First: While Trump has continued to state his support for covering people with preexisting conditions, his administration is actively seeking to have Obamacare declared unconstitutional. This would eliminate the health care law's groundbreaking and very popular protections for those with less-than-perfect medical histories. The administration is siding with Texas and a coalition of Republican-led states that are challenging the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act in federal court. The Department of Justice initially argued a year ago that two key Obamacare provisions were no longer valid because Congress effectively eliminated the individual mandate by reducing the penalty for not having insurance to $0. Those two provisions -- which ban insurers from denying coverage and from setting premiums based on health backgrounds -- overhauled the nation's health insurance industry and allowed millions of Americans to gain coverage. Under Attorney General William Barr, the department went even further in pushing to dismantle the law. In a filing with the federal appeals court in March, the Justice Department said it agreed with the December ruling of a federal judge in Texas that invalidated the entire Affordable Care Act. (The law remains in effect as the case works its way through the courts.) If Obamacare itself falls, it would also eliminate the provision that requires insurers to provide comprehensive policies that cover a wide range of treatments, another key component of the protections for those with preexisting conditions. A coalition of 21 blue states led by California is defending the law. The Democratic-led House of Representatives has joined the effort, painting the GOP as hurting those with preexisting conditions. The two sides are expected to argue before a panel of appellate judges in early July. Trump also said he's formulating a new GOP health care plan that will be better than Obamacare. But the bills that Congress came up with in 2017 in the Republicans' failed attempt to repeal and replace the law would have also chipped away at the protections for those with preexisting conditions. The so-called "skinny repeal" bill that the late Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona helped to nix would have given states more flexibility in requiring insurers to provide comprehensive policies. The President continues to criticize McCain's famous thumbs-down vote on the bill in July 2017 This article has been updated. CNN's Grace Sparks contributed to this report. Trump may raise Hong Kong protests with Xi as city remains a thorn in Beijing's side Hong Kong (CNN)Hong Kong has once again burnished its reputation as a thorn in the side of the Chinese Communist Party and its leader, President Xi Jinping, after protesters swarmed the city's streets for the third time in one week. Years of relative calm after the 2014 Occupy protests had given the impression that the semi-autonomous Chinese city had fallen into step with Beijing under leader Carrie Lam. But in just eight days, mass protests have forced the government into a rare public backdown, emboldened anti-China elements in Taiwan and may even become a part of negotiations around the trade war between the United States and China. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in an interview with Fox News Sunday that he expected President Donald Trump to raise the Hong Kong protests with Xi at the G20 talks in Japan this month. "I'm sure this will be among the issues that we discuss. We have a wide range of very important issues in the way China and the United States interact," he said. Publicly, the Chinese government has struck a defiant tone on the protests, supporting the local government and blaming "foreign meddling" and anti-China elements inside the city. But experts said the Hong Kong demonstrations drew attention to China at a time when Xi could least afford negative scrutiny. "President Xi still wants to get the US trade talks back on track and he doesn't want to link trade with any other issue at this point," said Bonnie Glaser, director of the China Power Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). Xi's authority 'dented' A policy concession by a top Chinese official is rare to say the least, and for it to come as a result of public pressure is almost unheard of. Nonetheless, that's what Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam did on Sunday when she apologized to Hong Kong residents after an estimated 2 million of them, about a quarter of the city's population, took to the streets. A day earlier, the government had suspended the controversial bill that protesters said would have potentially put political activists and business people at risk of being extradited to mainland China -- and disappeared into the country's opaque criminal justice system. Chief Executive Lam and her government have insisted the bill was simply a way to close loopholes and ensure Hong Kong does not become a haven for fugitives from the mainland. Instead, debate around the law appears to have revived Hong Kong's nascent protest movement at the worst possible time for Beijing, amid the US trade war and just months before the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. "It implies that if people are brave enough to show defiance against Beijing, they can get away with it, they can get some results, they can force Beijing and the Chinese Communist Party to back down," said Willy Lam, an adjunct professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong and longtime analyst of Chinese politics. Lam said Xi's authority, already "dented" by the prolonged US trade war, would be further questioned in Beijing in the wake of the Hong Kong protests. "This is one more set back for Xi Jinping," he said. Hong Kong divides US and China Hong Kong is an unwanted headache for the Chinese leader less than two weeks before he is due to meet world leaders at the G20 summit in Osaka. Most importantly, though it has yet to be confirmed, Xi is also expected to meet face-to-face with US President Trump for the first time since trade talks collapsed at the beginning of May. Both sides blamed the other for the failure and, in response, the Trump administration raised tariffs to 25% on an estimated $200 billion of Chinese goods. The Chinese government maintains it is not afraid of a trade war, but higher tariffs are an extra burden on an economy that's already showing signs of slowing. While both sides are trying to find a way forward, the Hong Kong protests have sparked another wave of antagonism and rhetoric between the US and China. After the initial protests, Secretary of State Pompeo expressed concern about the proposed extradition bill, while the US Congress has threatened new legislation which would downgrade Hong Kong's special status as a trading hub if Beijing doesn't stop infringing on the city's freedoms. That special status is significant. Hong Kong is allowed economic freedoms that are restricted to the rest of China, which, tied with an unbiased court system left over from the UK colonial period, have led to many large Western businesses basing their lucrative China operations out of the city. As more US businesses begin to look at investments outside of China, Hong Kong's role as the country's most economically liberal city is more important than ever. China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said Friday that any attempts to instigate chaos in Hong Kong were bound to fail. "We urge certain people in the US to respect basic facts, discard arrogance and prejudice, stop playing dirty tricks that meddle in Hong Kong affairs," said spokesman Geng Shuang. China expert Glaser said it wasn't unusual for Beijing to accuse the US of interfering in its domestic politics, a standard pattern which went back decades to the fall of the Soviet Union. But she added it wasn't out of the question for President Trump to see Hong Kong as a potential point of leverage in trade talks, similar to his handling of Taiwan relations or the export ban on Huawei. "There's always a risk that he chooses to use Hong Kong as a bargaining chip," she said. 'Over my dead body' The Hong Kong protests have also come during a heated presidential election campaign in Taiwan, which has increasingly been seen as a referendum on relations with mainland China. Taiwan and China have been separately governed since the end of a bloody civil war in 1949, and in the past decade Beijing has been attempting to woe the island back through a combination of promises and threats. President Tsai Ing-wen's Democratic Progressive Party has historically been seen as pro-independence, while the opposition Kuomintang have encouraged closer relations with the mainland. But in a sign that the Hong Kong protests are spreading, a leading opposition Kuomintang presidential candidate came out hard on Saturday against closer ties with the mainland. "'One Country, Two Systems' can never be implemented in Taiwan. Taiwanese people can never accept it, unless it's over my dead body," presidential candidate Han Kuo-yu told a rally, referring to the special system of government used in Hong Kong. In response, the crowd chanted "Reject 'One Country, Two Systems,"' according to Taiwan news agency CNA. President Tsai herself has made regular statements in support of the Hong Kong protesters, clearly trying to burnish her anti-Beijing credentials ahead of the January vote. "In their pursuit of democracy and freedom, the people of Hong Kong (are) not alone. Because we know that if you don't stand for something, you will fall for anything," the Taiwan leader said on her official Twitter feed on June 13. China expert Lam said if the rebellious Hong Kong spirit spread to Taiwan, or even further, it would be dire news of Beijing. "Xi has been trying to intimidate the people of Taiwan by naked demonstrations of force, but now the Taiwan people can point to Hong Kong to say that if the Taiwan people are united against China, they can get away with it," said Lam. "They can even force Beijing to make a compromise."  Joshua Wong released from prison day after hundreds of thousands march in Hong Kong Hong Kong (CNN)A day after organizers said 2 million Hong Kongers took to the streets to march against an extradition bill with China, one of the city's pro-democracy icons has been released from prison. Joshua Wong walked free Monday after serving one month of a two month sentence related to protests in 2014. "It's really good timing to join the fight for freedom and democracy," he told CNN after his release. "Five years ago after the end of the Umbrella Movement, we claimed we would be back. Yesterday 2 million people came to the streets ... it shows Hong Kong people realize this is a long term battle." Wong echoed protesters' calls for the city's Beijing-backed leader to resign. "Why did Carrie Lam need to wait to suspend the bill until 1 million people came to the streets, it's because she's not elected by the people of Hong Kong," he said. "It's time for her to step down." Wong added that he thought Beijing too must be looking at the chaos in Hong Kong -- amid the US-China trade war and other headaches for President Xi Jinping -- and wondering about Lam's future. "Hong Kong is just a small international city with seven million citizens, but two million people came to the streets, it shows that we have the consensus," he said. "She has to end her political career." Wong predicted that if the bill is not fully withdrawn and key officials resign, then protests could continue, particularly on July 1, the anniversary of the city's handover from British to Chinese rule and a key annual date for pro-democracy marches. One of Wong's first actions Monday was to pay his respects at a memorial in Admiralty, near the main site of the protests, where a man fell to his death Saturday after climbing a shopping mall and displaying signs calling for the withdrawal of the extradition bill. Wong's political party, Demosisto, has been among several youth groups -- all of which have their roots in the 2014 Umbrella Movement -- playing a big role in the protests against the extradition bill, which have been ongoing for weeks. In a statement Saturday after Lam said she was suspending passage of the controversial bill. Demosisto said Hong Kongers should "demand that the bill be shelved for good, stand against political prosecution of protesters, condemn police brutality, and call for Lam's resignation." "That Lam continues to blame the bill's widespread opposition as a result of Hong Kongers' misunderstanding of it is also condescending," Demosisto said Saturday. "Our movement may have won a battle, but the war is not yet over. We urge the international community not to turn away." Wong appeared cognizant of that community in his statements Monday, speaking in Cantonese, English and Mandarin. He also thanked supporters in Taiwan, where the Hong Kong protests have become a major issue in the island's presidential election, creating yet another headache for Beijing. Born in 1996, eight months before control of Hong Kong was handed over from the UK to China, Wong has spent most of his adolescence and all of his early adulthood fighting for the city's rights against what he and others say is increasing encroachment by Beijing. A student leader during 2014's Occupy protests -- which called for universal suffrage in Hong Kong -- Wong became something of an international figurehead for the movement, and even appeared on the cover of Time magazine. His role in the protests later became the subject of the 2017 Netflix documentary, "Teenager vs. Superpower."  Hong Kong extradition law: What happens next? Hong Kong (CNN)Hong Kong's government has blinked. The city's leader Carrie Lam announced Saturday she was suspending a controversial extradition bill after mass protests and sustained opposition from multiple sectors of society. While she fell short of fully withdrawing the bill -- or resigning -- as some protesters had demand, the move is nevertheless a major win for the hundreds of thousands who took to the streets on June 9, as well as the tens of thousands of mostly young protesters who shut down parts of the city on Wednesday and prevented lawmakers from beginning a second reading. Protest organizers are calling for another mass rally on Sunday in a bid to keep the pressure on the government. Protesters will wear black and demand the bill be completely withdrawn and Lam step down. Pro-democracy figures claim the bill's reintroduction would lead to the erosion of civil rights in Hong Kong, including freedom of speech and rule of law, and could see residents sent to China to face prosecution in a country with an opaque legal system. Beijing has yet to officially react to Lam's announcement that she was suspending the bill, though the Chief Executive has emphasized that she had the central government's support. From all available accounts, it appears that the bill was an initiative of Lam's government -- as she has claimed all along -- rather than an order from on high. Lam and her ministers appear to have seen in a gruesome Taiwan murder case a way to win an easy public relations victory by extraditing a wanted killer to face justice, and a way to close loopholes and extend the central government's powers to go after fugitives, especially former Chinese officials, in Hong Kong. They do not, however, seem to have expected the overwhelmingly negative response to the bill and the deep, widespread distrust for the Chinese legal system. Pro-democracy activists, NGOs and business groups came together in calling for the bill's withdrawal, and it also served to unify the previously fractured political opposition. Protests this month -- with the June 9 march the largest since Hong Kong was handed over to Chinese control, and Wednesday's protests among some of the most violent scenes ever seen in the city -- left Lam unwilling to push forward with a bill so clearly unpopular and potentially dangerous. However, while the climbdown is certainly embarrassing to both the Hong Kong and Beijing governments, it only maintains the status quo, as did a mass movement against an anti-sedition law in 2003, previously the largest protests Hong Kong had seen under Chinese rule. Hong Kong residents have proven more willing to come to the streets to fight back against a loss of political freedoms than to push for extra ones, and both the local and central governments appear to have a greater degree of flexibility or patience on these issues as well. The situation in 2014, when demands for the direct election of the chief executive spiraled into the Umbrella Movement, was very different. Those protests did not attract such a broad swath of society, and they were also greeted with a much more forceful reaction by Beijing, and a subsequent crackdown and numerous prosecutions and disqualifications of lawmakers. Does the bill have a future? While Lam emphasized that the bill has been suspended rather than completely withdrawn, it is likely that the effect will be the same, at least in the near term. As opposition to the bill grew, Taipei said it would not request the murder suspect's extradition from Hong Kong, as it said the bill would put Taiwanese citizens in danger. With this off the table, Lam admitted there was "less urgency to pass the bill this year." Going forward, she said she wanted to focus on "economic and livelihood" issues, particularly those such as housing, a consistent major issue in Hong Kong, particularly for young people of the sort out protesting Wednesday. That language is similar to what she has used in the past when discussing whether her government would seek to introduce Article 23, the anti-sedition law which was shelved after mass protests against it in 2003. Lam has said she would only do so were the conditions in society correct, and on Saturday she said she regretted that controversies over the extradition bill had spoiled the "period of calm" Hong Kong had enjoyed since she took office in 2017. While the government could reintroduce the bill next year, it is unlikely as 2020 is an election year for the legislative council. The newly reinvigorated and unified pro-democratic camp will be targeting marginal seats in an attempt to wrest back veto power in the legislature, and pro-Beijing lawmakers have already warned that the controversies over the bill could cost them seats. So though some protesters and opposition figures may complain that Lam has only suspended rather than withdrawn the bill, the effect may end up being the same.  Hong Kong suspends controversial extradition bill after mass protests Hong Kong (CNN)Hong Kong will suspend a controversial China extradition bill, its leader said Saturday, in an apparent bid to quell further unrest and mass demonstrations throughout the semi-autonomous Chinese city. Speaking after consultations with lawmakers, Chief Executive Carrie Lam, the top official in Hong Kong, said passage of the bill would be suspended and a second reading due to take place this month canceled. There is no timeline for discussions around the bill to resume, Lam said, and she indicated it likely will not pass this year. "We have made many attempts to narrow differences and eliminate doubts," Lam said. "In the last week, tens of thousands of people took part in protests and gatherings. Serious conflicts broke out ... resulting in a number of police officers, media workers and other members of the public being injured. I am saddened by this." She added that in suspending the bill she hoped the government could "restore calmness" to society. Failure to do so would "deal another blow to the society," Lam said. The announcement follows violent clashes between police and protesters Wednesday, after tens of thousands of mostly young people surrounded the city's government headquarters, forcing legislators to postpone a debate on the bill. They were just the latest in a series of public protests against the bill, which critics fear could be used to extradite residents to mainland China for political or inadvertent business offenses. On June 9, more than 1 million people took to the streets in a peaceful march against the legislation, about one in seven of the city's population -- a potential repeat of that demonstration is planned for this Sunday. Hong Kong's pro-democracy camp, which has called on Lam to retract the bill entirely, is calling for the chief executive to resign. Speaking after Lam's news conference, pro-democracy lawmaker Claudia Mo said protests would continue until she steps down. "If she refuses to withdraw, to scrap this controversial bill altogether, it would mean that we wouldn't retreat. She stays on. We stay on," Mo said. "Carrie Lam has lost all credibility amongst the Hong Kong people. She must step down." A spokesman for the Civil Human Rights Front confirmed to CNN that the march would go ahead even if the bill was paused. The Democratic Party said in a statement that the march would start at 2:30 p.m. local time Sunday in Victoria Park. Protesters will wear black and demand the bill be completely withdrawn and Lam step down. One protester died on Saturday after falling from a building in Hong Kong's Admiralty district, where he was holding a banner opposing the extradition bill, a police spokeswoman told CNN. 'Deep regret' Addressing the media, Saturday, Lam blamed herself for failure to communicate effectively to the public. She said the original driving force of the bill was a murder case in Taiwan, in which the alleged perpetrator, a Hong Kong man, fled to the city. That case, Lam said, highlighted "loopholes" in the current law with regards to Greater China. "As a responsible government we needed to find a solution to deal with this murder case (and) give justice to the family," Lam said. However, Taipei said earlier this month it would not seek the man's extradition based on the bill, which it said put Taiwanese citizens at risk, removing any urgency for Hong Kong lawmakers to change the law. While she said the "original purpose of the bill is correct in my mind," Lam added that "our communication has not been adequate." "I feel deep sorrow and regret that the deficiencies in my work and other factors has stirred up deep dissatisfaction and controversies in society," Lam said, adding that she and her team would "adopt the most sincere and humble attitude" in future. The climbdown over the bill will raise questions over Lam's future. Before she became chief executive in 2017, Lam said she would resign "if mainstream opinion makes me no longer able to continue the job." Legal concerns Although Hong Kong is part of China, it has a different legal system -- a concept known as "one country, two systems." Pro-democracy figures said that the bill, championed by the pro-Beijing Lam government, would lead to the erosion of civil rights in Hong Kong, including freedom of speech and rule of law. "We are afraid that we will become a mainland city," lawmaker Fernando Cheung said Thursday. "We would no longer have rule of law, our own autonomy." Throughout the debate Lam has maintained that the bill is necessary to ensure that Hong Kong does not become a sanctuary for fugitives running from justice in mainland China. Hong Kong's legislative council is due to go on summer recess on July 20, before beginning again in October.  Why Nintendo, Google and others may want to move some manufacturing out of China New York (CNN Business)China has long been the world's manufacturing powerhouse. It has the suppliers, the assembly lines, the workers, the expertise. Companies, particularly technology giants like Google, depend on China to assemble their products. Now, a year into a trade war provoked by a tough new stance by the United States, including costly tariffs, some companies are starting to look elsewhere. Nintendo (NTDOF) and Google (GOOGL) are reportedly seeking alternative locations to make some of their products. Google, which already has a significant presence in Taiwan, now plans to shift some manufacturing of its Nest thermostats and server hardware out of China to avoid tariffs, according to a report from Bloomberg, citing people familiar with the matter. And the Wall Street Journal reported that Nintendo is moving some production of its Switch video game consoles from China to Southeast Asia, citing people who work on the company's supply chain. This comes after a senior executive at Foxconn, the Taiwanese contract manufacturer that makes most of Apple's smartphones in China, told Bloomberg that the company has enough capacity to make all United States-bound iPhones outside of China. Apple (AAPL) has not said it is looking to move manufacturing. Video game consoles are typically a low-margin business, meaning that tariffs on consoles could be a real problem for Nintendo's ability to turn a profit. And Nintendo has been counting on the Switch console to drive big sales. A spokesperson for Nintendo did not confirm or deny that it would be shifting manufacturing away from China. "Most of the components that make up the Nintendo Switch console are manufactured in China," the spokesperson said. "To help keep costs down for consumers, it helps logistically to assemble products in close proximity of where those parts are manufactured." The Japanese company did, however, say it is closely following the tariff situation, and that it is "always exploring options" for where its products are produced. Google (GOOGL) did not respond to a request for comment. Trade war prompts manufacturing moves Beyond Nintendo and Google, companies have been reconsidering their supply chains since the White House launched a trade war with China last year. Last month, the United States hiked import tariffs to 25% from 10% on $200 billion in Chinese goods including electronic equipment and computer products like produce and textiles. Companies that rely on China for production of goods to be sent to the United States are also concerned about other potential Chinese retaliatory measures, such as increased regulations or customs delays. China has ramped up pressure on American companies as trade tensions escalate. After the United States hit Huawei with an export ban on May 15, effectively barring American companies from doing business with the Chinese smartphone maker, China responded by creating a blacklist of foreign firms. Earlier this month, China fined Ford's main venture in the country for antitrust violations, fueling fears about tit-for-tat punitive actions by the two countries. This uncertainty may be an even more compelling reason to move manufacturing than tariffs, said New York University Stern Business School professor Joseph Foudy. "If we knew China was facing a 15% to 20% tariff, some companies might just chalk that up to a business expense and stay," Foudy said. "It's the uncertainty that drives you to look abroad because you can't put a price on that." For tech companies in particular, concerns about intellectual property and security have also been points of contention for the US-China relationship and may put pressure on them to diversify their sourcing and manufacturing networks. Diversifying production Much of the production work moving out of China has shifted to countries in Southeast Asia — not to the United States. The manufacturing sector in the region this month experienced its strongest growth rate in nine months, according to the most recent Nikkei-Markit purchasing manufacturers index, thanks in large part to new orders. Rising wages in China have given companies yet another reason to consider moving production to Southeast Asian countries like Vietnam and Thailand where labor is cheaper. The increasing automation of tech manufacturing makes that easier, as companies no longer have to rely so heavily on highly skilled workers to produce their goods. Much of the production of Google motherboards bound for the United States has already moved to Taiwan, according to the Bloomberg report. Over the past year, Google has also invested in its Taiwan engineering and innovation hub, with plans to expand its campus and double the size of its team in New Taipei City, as well as providing artificial intelligence and digital marketing training to local students. Despite these shifts, China, the world's largest manufacturer, remains a vitally important production hub. Not only are factories and suppliers centered there but the infrastructure — roads, ports, airports and power grids — remain better than in many of those countries where production has begun to move. Although companies may gradually move some manufacturing or expand their production networks beyond China, Foudy said he doesn't expect the country's dominance as a manufacturing center will experience any major changes. "China remains the 'total package' of manufacturing," Foudy said. "The efficiency of manufacturing is based on how many suppliers are located nearby, what the quality of roads and ports and infrastructure is like, the quality and consistency of electricity, and the talent pool to draw on. On all of those metrics, China remains number one." US President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping are scheduled to meet at the Group of 20 summit at the end of this month. Trump has threatened to place tariffs on another $300 billion of Chinese exports if China's leader does not attend the meeting. If the negotiations don't end well, companies might more seriously consider moving production out of China.  Trump says he hopes China and Hong Kong can work things out in wake of protests Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump said Wednesday that he hopes things work out between the Chinese central government and Hong Kong demonstrators protesting changes to an extradition bill. More than 70 people have been injured as a result of protests over the bill, according to CNN reporting. The proposed law would allow Hong Kong to extradite fugitives to territories where it doesn't have formal extradition deals, including mainland China, Taiwan and Macau. "I don't know what they're sending them. That's a demonstration that they're having. I understand the reason for the demonstration but I'm sure they'll be able to work it out. I hope they'll be able to work it out with China," said Trump, when asked if the protesters are sending a message to China. Trump said the Hong Kong demonstration he saw was "as big a demonstration as I've ever seen." "So, I hope it all works out for China and for Hong Kong," he said. "I looked today and that really is a million people. A lot of times people talk about, they had 2,000 people but it was really 1,000 or it was 200. I see it all the time," he said. "But when you look at this demonstration, they said it was a million people. That was a million people." Wednesday's protests come three days after a mostly peaceful march in central Hong Kong. Police estimated 240,000 people attended on Sunday, while organizers put the number at 1.03 million -- the latter figure would make it the city's largest protest since the former British colony was handed back to China in 1997. Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets at protesters in Hong Kong on Wednesday, hours after tens of thousands of mostly young people surrounded the city's government headquarters and postponed the debate over the controversial bill. As violent clashes erupted between protesters and the authorities late Wednesday afternoon local time, Hong Kong Police Commissioner Steven Lo Wai-chung said the demonstration was being considered a "riot." He added that police had been left with "no choice but to start to use force." Although Hong Kong is part of China, it has separate laws that follow the UK system and no capital punishment, unlike mainland China. Many people fear that the proposed extradition law means they could be taken from Hong Kong by Chinese authorities for political or inadvertent business offenses. Trump's statement hoping for a resolution between Hong Kong and mainland China comes ahead of a planned meeting between the President and Chinese President Xi Jinping at the G20 in Japan later this month. The two are expected to continue trade talks, but White House adviser Kellyanne Conway suggested the extradition bill may come up. "Obviously, we want people to live in peace and prosperity and we're -- pretty remarkable to see that many people taking to the streets. When the President meets with President Xi perhaps that will be raised," Conway told reporters Wednesday morning. State Department spokesperson Morgan Ortagus encouraged "all sides to exercise restraint and to refrain from violence." "Of course we think these peaceful protests are incredibly important and it's important for the Hong Kong government to respect these freedom of expressions, respect the right to peacefully assemble," she said during a press briefing Wednesday. CNN's Jennifer Hansler and Julia Hollingsworth contributed to this report. Trump's trade war is here to stay. Companies like mine will pay the price Dan K. Eberhart is CEO of Canary, an independent oilfield services company in the United States. He has served as a consultant to the energy industry in North America, Asia and Africa. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. The Trump administration's escalating trade war with China has left American companies with little choice. They must either scale back their reliance on Chinese manufacturers or get comfortable with higher costs and slimmer profit margins. With no end in sight in the tit-for-tat trade war, companies must turn to lower-cost nations in Asia and the Americas to find alternative suppliers. The problem is that it is becoming increasingly difficult to find a nation that is not also a target of President Trump's tariff stick. With the recent tariff increase on Chinese goods to 25%, and threats to tariff an additional $300 billion in Chinese goods, companies like mine, Canary LLC, are increasingly looking at new suppliers to avoid levies and preserve profits. Canary is looking at Mexico as a viable nearshore provider of critical equipment for our oilfield services business. The Trump administration's decision to threaten Mexico with escalating tariffs — unless it curbs illegal border crossings into the United States — caused us to scramble again. A last-minute agreement between Trump and Mexico has — at least temporarily — ended that trade fight, but not the uncertainty. We're not alone in looking for alternative supply chains. Other industries are exploring ways to avoid tariffs and resist pushing the higher cost of products onto consumers. Like Canary, they are finding their choices limited. Trump has threatened to impose tariffs on imported cars and parts, which would hurt European and Japanese automakers, leaving US companies that rely on global supply chains wondering if anywhere is safe. To be fair to President Trump, a reckoning with China over its trade practices, including allegedly stealing trade secrets and forced technology sharing, has been a long time coming, and, if not under Trump, would ultimately have come to a head under a future administration. Reducing America's overreliance on Chinese imports will be healthy in the long run. Lowering the trade deficit with China will give Washington greater leverage in future negotiations over strategic economic and geopolitical matters. But it will be painful for American companies and consumers in the near term. Diversification is already happening, according to a new report from New York Federal Reserve economists. An 8% year-on-year growth rate in Chinese imports in October flipped to an 18% decline in March — before Trump hiked the tariff rate to 25% on $200 billion of Chinese goods in early May. China's export orders were down in May compared to the previous month, according to China's National Bureau of Statistics. China's Southeast Asia neighbors are mainly picking up the slack and reaping the benefits. According to recent Census Bureau data, US imports from Taiwan rose to 22% in the first four months of 2019, while imports from Vietnam are up 38%. First-quarter imports from South Korea meanwhile rose by 17%. At Canary, we plan to operate as if the tariffs on Chinese goods are here to stay. China's government recently released a white paper on the trade standoff that makes it clear Beijing is not giving in to US demands anytime soon. We have moved much of our manufacturing to Vietnam, India, Malaysia and South Korea. We still depend on China for a significant portion of the wellheads and other steel products used in the oilfields, but it's on the decline. Our goal is for non-Chinese sources to account for 25% of our international purchases within the year, up from our previous target of 10%. Like other US companies, we recognize that doing business with these rival suppliers can be more expensive than with our traditional Chinese partners. But over time, with markets braced for a protracted US-China trade war, that may not be the case as manufacturers in nations that are not in Trump's crosshairs expand their capabilities. For now, the smart move is to build strong business relationships in countries that Washington has far fewer gripes with than Beijing.  More than 1 million protest in Hong Kong, organizers say, over Chinese extradition law Hong Kong (CNN)More than 1 million protesters took to the streets of Hong Kong Sunday, organizers said, to oppose a controversial extradition bill that would enable China to extradite fugitives from the city. The mass of protesters would be the largest demonstration since the city was handed back to China in 1997. Civil Human Rights Front, the group that organized the protests, said 1.03 million people marched -- a figure that accounts for almost one in seven of the city's 7.48 million-strong population. Hong Kong Police estimated the number of protesters closer to 240,000. Critics say the bill will leave anyone on Hong Kong soil vulnerable to being grabbed by the Chinese authorities for political reasons or inadvertent business offenses and undermine the city's semi-autonomous legal system. The bill has caused political gridlock, outcry among the city's usually pro-conservative business community, and even physical scuffles in the city's legislature, as well as criticism of the Hong Kong government by the United States and European Union. The government says the bill is designed to plug loopholes in current law by allowing Hong Kong to decide on a case-by-case basis whether or not to send fugitives to territories where it doesn't have formal extradition deals -- such as Taiwan, Macau and mainland China. Lawmakers have said the guarantee of a fair trial will not be written into the bill. Sunday afternoon, protesters gathered at Victoria Park in central Hong Kong, waving placards and wearing white -- the designated color of the rally. "Hong Kong, never give up!" some chanted. Other protesters were heard chanting "step down," "shelve the evil law," "anti extradition to China," and called for Carrie Lam, the chief executive of Hong Kong, to step down, as the marchers made their way along the 3-kilometer (1.86-mile) route to the Legislative Council in the Admiralty business district. At least seven people were arrested, the police posted to Twitter. At around 7:30 p.m. in Hong Kong (7:30 a.m. ET), five to six men with masks planned to occupy a main road in the city, Hong Kong Police said on Twitter. Police said they used pepper spray on the protesters before they escaped the area. Officers urged protesters to disperse. The protest was mostly peaceful during the day, but it turned violent overnight, with police trying to clear protesters with batons. Thousands also gathered to protest the extradition bill in cities across Australia on Sunday. Similar marches were planned in other cities around the world, Hong Kong political group Demosisto said in a statement. At about 10.30 p.m. (10.30 a.m. ET), organizers announced that the protest had ended. CNN journalists on the ground said the bulk of the protesters had dispersed by then, leaving a number of people milling around the Legislative Council. Late Sunday, the government of Hong Kong released a statement acknowledging the ongoing protests across the island but reiterating the contested bill is still scheduled to resume debate June 12. "We urge the Legislative Council to scrutinize the Bill in a calm, reasonable and respectful manner to help ensure Hong Kong remains a safe city for residents and business," it said. Murder of tourist The case for the bill was expedited by a grisly murder case in Taiwan, where a 20-year-old Hong Kong woman was allegedly killed by her boyfriend while on holiday there. Currently, the suspect cannot be sent from Hong Kong to face justice in Taiwan. However, Taipei has already said it will refuse to cooperate with the new law if it puts Taiwanese citizens at risk of being extradited to China. The self-ruled island has previously seen citizens accused of crimes in countries that do not recognize Taiwan diplomatically being handed to Chinese custody, despite objections of Taipei. Earlier this week, Chris Patten, the last British governor of Hong Kong, slammed the bill. "People have known exactly why there shouldn't be an extradition agreement with China for years," Patten said in a video message Thursday. "The argument that it's better to have an extradition treaty than to abduct people illegally from Hong Kong -- are people really supposed to believe that?" Last month, representatives from the European Union met with Lam, the chief executive, and expressed concern over the bill. Members of the US Congressional-Executive Commission on China (CECC) have also spoken out against the bill, warning Lam it could "negatively impact the relationship between the United States and Hong Kong." Unwanted and unneeded? Business groups in Hong Kong usually take a neutral stance on contentious political issues. But this time they, too, have spoken out against the bill. In a bid to secure their support, the government has limited the scope of extraditable offenses -- but for some that is still not enough. The American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong warned last week there were "too many uncertainties in fundamental sections of the proposed legislation" for it to be passed in its current form. "Hong Kong is not ready to see this bill passed and we do not see why it should be rushed through when the loophole it seeks to address has existed for 20 years," the chamber said in a statement. But government spokesman Matthew Cheung said the move was time sensitive. "The suspect in the Taiwan murder case is serving sentences for other criminal offenses in Hong Kong but is expected to be released this October," Cheung said. "There is thus a pressing need to provide a legal basis for the assistance that we want to render to Taiwan, before the (legislature) goes into summer recess from mid-July to October." Cheung did not address Taipei's concerns over the bill. Separately, Lam said it was "unfounded" to suggest the Hong Kong government "will just follow the instructions given by the Central Government and surrender whatever fugitives that the Central Government wants." A US State Department spokesperson said Washington is "concerned by the Hong Kong government's proposed amendments to its Fugitive Offenders Ordinance, which would allow for individuals to be transferred to mainland China at the request of Communist Party authorities, and is closely monitoring the situation." "Societies are best served when diverse political views are respected and can be freely expressed," the spokesperson said in a statement. "Continued erosion of the 'One country, Two systems' framework puts at risk Hong Kong's long-established special status in international affairs." Fierce opposition The extradition bill, particularly an attempt to fast-track it through Hong Kong's semi-democratic Legislature, has reinvigorated the city's flagging opposition movement after numerous setbacks. Organizers claimed 130,000 people took part in a protest against the bill in April. While police gave the lower figure of 22,800, it was still the biggest protest since the 2014 Umbrella Movement, an ultimately unsuccessful protest over political reform which shut down parts of the city for months. Fears over the bill -- and criticism from a broad swath of Hong Kong society -- echo 2003, when half a million people took to the streets to oppose the passage of an anti-sedition law. That legislation was shelved, but the issue has become such a hot-button topic in Hong Kong that -- despite promising to do so -- no governments since have attempted to introduce it. Sunday's protest comes days after the 30th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre, a pivotal moment that dashed hopes China would democratize before it took control of Hong Kong in 1997. Hong Kong has commemorated the massacre with a candlelit vigil ever since, the only place on Chinese soil where mass remembrances are held. Organizers said more than 180,000 people joined a vigil in the city's Victoria Park on Tuesday, the largest such event since the 25th anniversary in 2014, which came in the politically fraught run-up to the Umbrella protests. Correction: A previous version of this story misstated the number of people who participated in protests in Hong Kong on Sunday. The Civil Human Rights Front estimates there were 1.03 million protesters. CNN's Jennifer Hansler in Washington contributed to this report. Taiwan used to be home to a huge number of bears. No one really knows how many are left In the foothills leading to Dasyueshan National Park in eastern Taiwan, Mei-Hsiu Hwang points to the pear, tea and betel nut plantations patchworking the slopes. "All this used to be bear habitat," she says. In particular, the Formosan black bear, a large omnivore native to the high, clouded mountains that run down the spine of Taiwan. Hwang, associate professor and director of the Institute of Wildlife Conservation at Taiwan's National Pingtung University of Science and Technology, is likely the world's foremost expert on this species. But when she first started to study the huge mammals as part of her PhD in 1996, she says her friends and acquaintances reacted with shock. "They'd say, 'Do we have bears in Taiwan? We never had bears. Do we still have bears?'" she recalls. More than two decades later, the black bear is rapidly becoming a symbol for Taiwan. The mascot of Taipei City is a black bear named "Bravo," who was present at celebrations on May 24, when Taiwan held Asia's first same-sex weddings. Meanwhile, the island's now-defunct V Air Airline took its name from the distinctive white V shape on the black bear's chest. But despite an increased profile, these animals are still in deep trouble, says Hwang. Classified as "endangered" by the Taiwan government, the species is being pushed to the brink of extinction by illegal hunting and land clearing. Worse still, the relative rarity of these bears, combined with their dislike of humans, makes it almost impossible to know how many are left. Hwang estimates there are between just 200 and 600 black bears over the entire island. "If we cannot protect them, I don't believe we can protect anything else," says Hwang. "Bears are a flagship species, they're big, like a star, like pandas, elephants and tigers. If a country cannot protect them, will you be able to protect other, smaller wildlife? I don't think so." Forced into the mountains Hwang has to travel hours up into the hills, far from Taiwan's towns and cities, to access the areas still inhabited by bears. There are no official statistics from 100 years ago, before Taiwan's human population rapidly expanded, but Hwang says there are a large number of indigenous Taiwanese traditions relating to the bears that go back centuries. Even during Japanese occupation of the island in the early 20th century there were reports of bears being found as low as 100 meters above sea level. Now, Hwang says, they almost entirely live above 1,000 meters. "At lower elevations, theoretically it would be good habitat, but (they're driven higher) because of all the human disturbances -- mining, recreation, a lot of people activity," she says. The bears are primarily omnivorous, with their diet consisting mainly of fruits, nuts and berries. They scrounge over a massive habitat measuring hundreds of square kilometers. Unlike other large bears, they don't hibernate. The Formosan black bear is a subspecies of the Asian black bear, which can be found across East and Southeast Asia, including in Japan, Thailand and South Korea. The entire species is marked as "vulnerable" by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, but Hwang says it hasn't attracted as much attention as other more eye-catching animals, such as pandas or Asian elephants. In fact, the lack of interest to protect the bears that she faced when she started working with them made her furious. "It is a shame for Taiwanese people," says Hwang. "I feel ashamed, how come they're endangered and they're still treated this way." Hunted for meat and medicine While habitat loss has been hard on the bears, the biggest threat to Taiwan's largest mammal is illegal hunting. Over recent decades, there's been a growing, lucrative trade in bear parts -- bear meat for the black market and bones, gallbladders and paws for traditional Chinese medicine. In the past there were strict taboos among indigenous Taiwanese about hunting bears. If you killed one, Hwang says, some tribes even isolated you out of fear you would bring bad luck back to the village. But now, a black bear corpse can be worth as much as $5,000 to a hunter. Studies around Yushan National Park prior to the 1980s found 22% of the area's bears were killed for their meat and body parts. By the 1990s, this had soared to 59%. Hwang says the solution lies in education. If the market for bear parts and meat can be ended by raising consumer awareness, the animals can be saved. "If there is no market demand, I believe this will lead to less bear killing. This surely will help," she says. Another problem is that, due to bears' large feeding grounds, they regularly stray outside of the protected forests and into the wilds where they are vulnerable. Displaying the GPS data of one adult male on her laptop, Hwang shows us his path over the course of months. "That's the protected forest," she says, pointing to a small square covering just a fraction of his path. Still, Hwang says there doesn't need to be more protected areas across the island, just better enforcement against illegal hunting. "If all the suitable habitat allowed bears to survive, the current capacity for the whole island is able to have 5,000 to 10,000 individuals," she says. Instead, there are just hundreds. 'More precious than pandas' The only place anyone is likely to see a black bear these days is behind wire and glass at the Taipei Zoo. On a sunny Saturday, tourists from the island and mainland China cluster around the window of the Formosan black bear enclosure. "He's coming. He's so cute," one tourist says in Mandarin as the huge shaggy bear ambles through its cage. Tsai Chien-Chuan, 40-year-old father of two, brought his daughters to the enclosure. He says people need to be educated about how important the bears are to Taiwan. "They are more precious than pandas," says Tsai. "They are very important with a smaller population. If we don't protect them, they may go extinct." Hwang is hopeful for the future of the bears and says she's been encouraged by the growing island-wide awareness of the animal's plight. She now has about 25 volunteers working with her group, setting up camera traps high in the mountains to help track the bears' movements. Up in the mountains near Dasyueshan, there is first-hand evidence of hope for the bears. Using a GPS tracker, linked to a collar, Hwang and her team track down a female bear who has been only showing small signs of movement for months. This is likely because she has just given birth to cubs and has slowed her movements to a minimum to look after the young bears in safety. "I do believe we can make a difference," says Hwang. "To be honest I do see a lot of change." US and Russian warships nearly collide in the Pacific (CNN)The United States and Russian navies are at odds over an apparent near collision in the Pacific Friday with each side blaming the other. The US and Russian warships came somewhere between 50 feet and 165 feet of each other, according to the two opposing reports, with both sides alleging their ships were forced to perform emergency maneuvers to avoid a collision, which can be seen in video and a picture of the event obtained by CNN. In the video taken from the American ship, the two ships come so close that Russian sailors can be seen appearing to sunbathe on the stern of their vessel. "A Russian destroyer .... made an unsafe maneuver against USS Chancellorsville, closing to 50-100 feet, putting the safety of her crew and ship at risk," US Navy spokesman Cmdr. Clayton Doss told CNN in a statement. "This unsafe action forced Chancellorsville to execute all engines back full and to maneuver to avoid collision," Doss said. This latest incident comes just days after the US Navy accused Russia of intercepting a US aircraft and amid tensions with Moscow on a wide range of geopolitical issues. Last month, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met Russian Vladimir Putin in the resort town of Sochi, where he warned Russia about interfering in US elections, taking a tougher public line than President Donald Trump on the issue. It also comes at a time of increasing cooperation between China and Russia. After a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping at the Kremlin Wednesday, Russian leader Vladimir Putin said relations between the two countries have reached an "unprecedented level." Russia's geopolitical views align with those of China on many international and regional issues, Putin added. Both leaders agreed that there is no alternative to a peaceful solution on the Korean Peninsula. They discussed joint efforts to resolve the crisis in Syria and attempts to stabilize the situation in Venezuela, he said. Xi called the Russian President "a friend," and reiterated Putin's view, saying that "our cooperation is based on mutual trust." Acting Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan told reporters Friday that he is concerned about the safety of sailors following the "unsafe and unprofessional" incident and said the US will engage the Russians in "military to military" talks to convey a formal diplomatic message of concern, known as a démarche, to Moscow. "We'll have military to military conversations with the Russians and of course we'll démarche them. To me its safety that is most important. It will not deter us when conducting our operations," he said before greeting Greek Minister of National Defence Evangelos Apostolakis to the Pentagon. 'Unsafe and unprofessional' The US guided-missile cruiser was traveling in a straight line and trying to recover its helicopter when the incident occurred, he said. "We consider Russia's actions during this interaction as unsafe and unprofessional," Doss said. CNN obtained the video and picture of the event after a US official told CNN earlier that the Navy was working to declassify images to dispute the Russian narrative that the US was at fault. Two navy officials tell CNN the Russian wake in the photo could only come from a steep turn that has to be executed at high speed. "The wakes suggest the Russian ship didn't adhere to either the rules of the road or the incidents at sea agreement," according to Carl Schuster, a retired US Navy captain and former director of operations at the US Pacific Command's Joint Intelligence Center. International maritime law requires ships to maintain a safe distance, normally interpreted as 1,000 yards, when passing another. It also requires navies not to interfere with another ship conducting flight operations, he said. The US account was contradicted by Russia's Pacific Fleet, which claimed it was the US ship that instigated the incident, according to comments carried by the state-run RIA-Novosti news agency. "When moving (on) parallel courses of a detachment of ships of the Pacific Fleet and a carrier group of the US Navy, the cruiser Chancellorsville suddenly changed its direction and crossed within 50 meters of the Admiral Vinogradov," forcing the Russian destroyer to take emergency evasive action, the RIA-Novosti report said. The US Navy said the incident occurred in the Philippine Sea while the Russian report said it happened in the East China Sea. The boundary between the two bodies of water is the Senakaku Islands (also known as the Diaoyu islands in China), to the south of Japan and east of Taiwan. Regardless, the incident occurred in international waters and unusually far away from Russia, Schuster said. "The Russians normally harass our ships when they are operating in waters the Russian consider to be within their sphere of Influence (Black Sea, Barents Sea and the waters off Vladivostok," said Schuster, who spent 12 years at sea on US warships. Sending a message? Retired rear admiral and CNN military analyst John Kirby added that the timing of the encounter is also noteworthy as it coincides with Xi's visit to Moscow. "Clearly this sends a strong message to President Xi, from Putin's perspective, that we are on your team," Kirby told CNN's Jim Sciutto. "We have seen the Russians and Chinese cooperate increasingly ... when it suits their interests," he said, adding that the two countries participated in a major military exercise together just last year. But at the end of the day, both Kirby and Schuster said that Friday's incident was primarily about sending a message to the US. "Putin clearly has ordered the Russian Navy to pressure the USN whenever opportunities exist. It may possibly be a show of political support for China while Xi is in Moscow, but more likely to signal that Russia is willing to challenge the US dominance on the world stage and at sea," Schuster said. On Tuesday, the US accused Russia of intercepting a US aircraft flying in international airspace over the Mediterranean Sea three times in just under three hours. The second of the three interactions "was determined to be unsafe" due to the Russian aircraft "conducting a high speed pass directly in front of the mission aircraft, which put our pilots and crew at risk," the US Navy said. The Russian aircraft was armed and passed about 150 feet directly in front of the US plane, according to two US officials. The Russian military disputed the US Navy's characterization of the intercept as unsafe. "All flights of Russian aircraft were carried out in accordance with the international rules for the use of airspace," the Russian Ministry of Defense told reporters Wednesday. "There were no questions or complaints from the American center of flight deconfliction line in Syria to the Russian command." Still, US officials argue that Friday's incident in the Philippine Sea and Tuesday's encounter over the Mediterranean Sea are evidence of a larger pattern of Russian misbehavior. "The behavior by the Captain of the Russian destroyer in the Philippine Sea was irresponsible and reckless. This unwise maneuver, combined with the unsafe maneuvers by the Russian aircraft in the eastern Mediterranean earlier this week, make it clear that these dangerous actions by Russian military forces across the globe do not match what the world expects from a responsible and trustworthy world power," Chief of Naval Operations Adm. John Richardson said Friday in a tweet. "The US Navy will not be deterred from supporting the free and open use of the seas and skies where international law clearly allows all to operate," he added. CNN's Mary Ilyushina contributed to this report. 94 Taiwanese criminal suspects extradited from Spain to Beijing Beijing (CNN)A charter flight carrying 94 Taiwanese criminal suspects arrived in Beijing from Spain on Friday morning, making it the first large-scale extradition from Europe to China, state media reported. The Chinese government accused the Spain-based suspects of posing as Chinese law enforcement officials and defrauding people in China out of 120 million yuan ($17 million) in 2016 through phone calls, according to the state-run Xinhua news agency. Chinese and Spanish authorities worked together to uncover suspects and collect evidence as part of "Operation Great Wall," culminating in the arrest of 237 suspects across Spain in December 2016, Xinhua reported. Since all victims were mainland Chinese residents, the Beijing government in 2017 requested the extradition of the suspects from Spain to "better crack down on the crime and serve the victims' interest." After more than two years of judicial procedures, Xinhua said a Spanish court agreed to hand all suspects caught in "Operation Great Wall" over to the Chinese authorities. Spain has so far extradited 225 suspects, including 218 from Taiwan, in several batches to China, Xinhua added. Spain signed an extradition treaty with China in 2006, the first developed Western country to do so, according to Xinhua. In the past, countries in Southeast Asia and Africa have deported Taiwanese suspects in telecommunication fraud cases to mainland China. The latest transfer from Spain comes amid growing tensions between the two governments across the Taiwan Strait. Beijing regards Taiwan as part of its territory, though the two sides have been governed separately for seven decades following a bloody Chinese civil war. The democratic island of 23 million people runs its own political, economic, foreign policy and judicial system. While China usually praises other governments' decisions to send Taiwanese suspects to the mainland, Taipei has in the past objected such extraditions, calling them a "gross violation of basic human rights." The issue of extradition has also been recently thrown into a spotlight as legislators in Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China with its own political and legal system, debate an extradition bill that critics fear will allow dissidents and pro-democracy activists to be bundled over the border to China's Communist authorities.  Used as a natural Viagra in Chinese medicine, seahorse numbers are declining Hong Kong (CNN)In a row of shops in Sheung Wan, on the western side of Hong Kong Island, the seahorses are stored in plastic boxes and glass jars, their elongated, S-shaped bodies stacked like spoons. In Hong Kong, this district is the center of the trade in traditional Chinese medicine -- an ancient system that uses dried plants and animal parts to treat ailments. Its narrow streets are crammed with delivery trucks and men pushing trolleys loaded with crates of dried fungi, herbs, berries -- and seahorses. In Chinese medicine, seahorses are believed to have Viagra-like powers. Hong Kong is the world's largest trading hub for the dried animal. Sarah Foster, program manager of Project Seahorse at the University of British Columbia in Canada, said that analysis of global trade data shows that Hong Kong was responsible for around two thirds of all seahorse imports from 2004 to 2017. The World Wildlife Fund has reported that their popularity as a medicine is also driving sales in China, Taiwan and Indonesia. While nobody knows how many seahorse are left in the world, experts say they are under threat. With their miniature equine snouts and beady eyes, seahorses look very different than most other fish. And unusually, it's the males that get pregnant. But perhaps more importantly to conservation efforts, these are hard animals to study. Spread across vast oceans, some seahorses are less than an inch long and some can change color to camouflage themselves -- making them challenging to spot. Foster said that about 37 million seahorses are caught in the wild every year. And despite regulations designed to protect them, smuggling is rampant. According to Project Seahorse, research carried out around the world shows that populations of at least 11 species have dropped by between 30% and 50% over the past 15 years. Why are seahorses used in Chinese medicine? Seahorses were first mentioned in Chinese medical literature in 700AD but their use probably goes back much further, said Lixing Lao, director of the School of Chinese Medicine at the University of Hong Kong. "According to Chinese medicine theory, seahorse is nourishing ... and gives the body more energy," he said. Mixed with herbs and boiled as a tea, dried seahorses are most commonly used to treat asthma and male sexual dysfunction, including impotence and premature ejaculation, he said. Lao said there isn't there any scientific evidence that seahorses could relieve asthma or boost sexual performance, adding that there had not been any clinical trials carried out on humans in this area. As a former British colony, Hong Kong sees a mix of both Western medicine and Chinese medicine -- there were 7,425 registered Chinese medicine practitioners in the territory in 2017, according to the Department of Health. Seahorses retail in Sheung Wan for up to 40 Hong Kong dollars ($5) each. A shop assistant in Sheung Wan, who declined to give his name, said that from what he has seen, seahorses are mostly bought by men over the age of 50. Smuggled in suitcases In theory, seahorses are protected animals. In 2002, all species were listed under Appendix II of CITES, an international treaty designed to ensure that the international trade in wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. With this listing, seahorses can be exported only if they have been sourced sustainably and legally, and there is paperwork to prove it. Some countries, including Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia, went further and imposed blanket bans on seahorse exports. But these efforts have not saved seahorses, said Foster. Instead, the bans have created a black market. Earlier this year, Foster participated in a research project in Hong Kong. Investigators questioned 220 traders about the origin of their seahorse stocks during 2016 and 2017 and found that an estimated 95% were imported from countries with export bans. The traders revealed that Thailand is the number one supplier of Hong Kong's Chinese medicine shops -- despite that country officially suspending exports in January 2016. Small and non-perishable, dried seahorses are easily smuggled across borders, sometimes in mixed consignments with other dried seafood. Several of the traders in Foster's project admitted to carrying them in to Hong Kong in suitcases. With the trade now operating in the shadows, "it's a lot harder for us to monitor, track and manage it," said Foster. The Chinese medicine shops in Sheung Wan are not breaking the law in selling seahorses. A spokesperson for the Hong Kong government's Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department (AFCD) said that CITES measures for seahorses are designed to control import and export, but Hong Kong law does not ban trade within the territory. The AFCD has been trying to stop the illegal imports. In 2018, Hong Kong authorities seized 45 shipments of incoming dried seahorses weighing a total of 470 kilograms -- approximately 175,000 seahorses. The heaviest penalty handed to a smuggler was a four-month prison sentence, said the spokesperson. Caught in the net The traditional Chinese medicine market might be fueling demand for seahorses, but if the trade was stopped it would not save them, said Foster. That's because the underlying problem isn't Chinese medicine -- "it's the fishing industry," she said. Foster explained that as relatively rare animals, seahorses are not usually targeted by fishing boats. However, when indiscriminate fishing gear is used, they get scooped up in the nets along with everything else. Trawl nets -- large nets that are dragged along the seabed, catching everything in their path -- are the worst offenders. According to Project Seahorse, trawlers drag an area of seabed twice the size of the continental United States, every year. Trawl fishing is widespread in Africa, Latin America, east Asia and southeast Asia, said Foster, and southeast Asia is a hotspot for seahorses. As a valuable item, seahorses are usually retrieved from fishing nets and sold. Even if the trade disappeared, seahorses would still be caught in the nets, said Foster -- which would almost certainly kill them. "Either way, they would be dying," she added. Foster said the only way to save seahorses is to better manage fisheries -- reducing the size of fishing fleets, closing large areas of ocean to trawlers and making greater efforts to keep trawlers out of existing exclusion zones. CNN contacted Thailand's Department of Fisheries for their view on seahorse exports and fisheries regulation but had not received a reply at the time of publication. Foster would also like to see trade bans properly enforced with more rigorous checking of dried seafood shipments. "Without greater political will, it won't be possible to stamp out the problem," she said, adding that she fears that seahorses will be wiped out in some parts of the world.  US imports from Vietnam and other countries rise amid China trade war Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump's tariffs are driving some manufacturing out of China, but much of it remains outside of the United States. Instead, a number of other countries are benefiting from Trump's trade war, according to data released by the Census Bureau on Thursday. US imports from Vietnam are up 38% during the first four months of 2019, compared to last year -- suggesting that US importers are finding ways to buy from suppliers there. Imports have also increased by 22% from Taiwan, 17% from South Korea, and 13% from Bangladesh, the government data shows. Americans are importing about 12% less from China, a shift that comes after a year of inconclusive trade negotiations. Trump has lately expanded his trade war to include Mexico, which he's threatened with 5% tariffs starting on Monday. Tariffs are paid by importers, who can choose to eat the costs or pass them on to consumers, though in some cases overseas manufacturers cut their prices, too. The President has repeatedly claimed that his tariffs will prompt manufacturers to bring production back to the US, a core campaign promise. "The higher the Tariffs go, the higher the number of companies that will move back to the USA!," he tweeted this week. Yet he's also acknowledged that his trade wars are driving manufacturing elsewhere -- which dings China but doesn't do much for American consumers. "Also, the Tariffs can be completely avoided if you buy from a non-Tariffed Country, or you buy the product inside the USA (the best idea). That's Zero Tariffs. Many Tariffed companies will be leaving China for Vietnam and other such countries in Asia. That's why China wants to make a deal so badly!" Trump tweeted last month. Many US importers, including those that sell hats, footwear and other apparel, rely heavily on China for those goods and component pieces. In some cases, the US doesn't have the factories to produce what's needed. Plus, wages are higher and the US labor market is tight. "There is a litany of countries that footwear companies will consider before coming to the United States," said Matt Priest, president and CEO of the Footwear Distributors and Retailers of America, adding, "The United States is really not an option." But other countries are. Footwear companies will likely first look to shift production to Vietnam, where some shoe manufacturing already exists and it's easy to bring Chinese materials across the border, Priest said. "I think this notion that everything has to be made here is ignoring the economic facts of the 21st century global supply chain," he said. Even before Trump began imposing tariffs, some production was moving out of China because of increasing wages there. US imports from countries like Vietnam and South Korea have been steadily increasing over the past decade. "The current trade dispute is certainly accelerating that trend," said Russell Price, the chief economist at Ameriprise Financial. Trump has also inked a new trade deal with South Korea, opening up its market to US autos. While Taiwan and South Korea are more focused on high-tech items like smartphones and semiconductors, places like Vietnam still offer competitive wages -- making it an attractive place to make apparel and shoes.  Mad Cow Disease Fast Facts (CNN)Here's a look at Mad Cow Disease, a fatal brain disease found in cattle. Facts:

It has been linked to a fatal brain disease in humans called variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD). The official name of mad cow disease is bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). BSE lesions are characterized by sponge-like changes seen under an ordinary microscope. Eating contaminated meat or other products from cattle (excluding dairy products) with BSE is thought to be the cause of vCJD. BSE is passed between cows through the practice of recycling bovine carcasses for meat and bone meal protein, which is fed back to other cattle. Both mad cow disease and vCJD are fatal. Symptoms of vCJD involve psychiatric symptoms and behavioral changes, movement deficits, memory disturbances and cognitive impairments. BSE Statistics (Cattle):
(source: CDC)
BSE cases in North America 1993-August 2018: 26 cases confirmed, 20 in Canada, and six in the United States. One of the infected cows that died in the United States was born in Canada. One of the infected Canadian cows was imported from the United Kingdom. vCJD Statistics (Humans):
(source: CDC)
Since 1996, 231 vCJD cases have been identified in 12 countries:
United Kingdom - 178
France - 27
Spain - 5
Ireland - 4
United States - 4
Italy - 3
The Netherlands - 3
Portugal - 2
Canada - 2
Japan - 1
Saudi Arabia - 1
Taiwan - 1 Timeline:

1986 - Mad cow disease is first discovered in the United Kingdom. From 1986 through 2001, a British outbreak affects about 180,000 cattle and devastates farming communities. January 1993 - The BSE epidemic in Britain reaches its peak with almost 1,000 new cases being reported per week. 1996 - The first case of vCJD is reported. 1996-1999 - The European Union bans British beef. France continues the ban for an additional three years. May 20, 2003 - Canada's first case of mad cow disease is confirmed in an eight-year-old cow in Alberta. Canadian officials say the cow did not enter the food chain. May 21, 2003 - Mexico, Japan and South Korea join the United States in temporarily banning Canadian beef. December 23, 2003 - The US Department of Agriculture confirms the first case of mad cow disease in the United States. The infected cow is discovered on a farm in Washington State in early December. Japan, China and South Korea stop the importation of US beef. The infected cow was born in Canada, in April 1997 - just four months before the United States and Canada began banning the use of brain and spinal cord tissue in cattle feed. January 9, 2004 - The USDA says it will begin destroying about 130 cattle that were "herd mates" of the cow that tested positive for the first-ever US case of mad cow disease. January 26, 2004 - New safeguards against mad cow disease are announced by the Food and Drug Administration. They include banning chicken waste from cattle feed and barring restaurant meat scraps from being used in animal feed. January 28, 2004 - The Commodity Futures Trading Commission launches an investigation into whether some commodity futures market players may have known about the first US case of mad cow disease before it was announced to the public. June 20, 2004 - Charlene Singh, the first person known to live in the United States with vCJD, dies. January 2, 2005 - Canadian health authorities confirm that test results have identified a 10-year-old dairy cow in Alberta as having mad cow disease. This is Canada's second case of BSE in two years. June 24, 2005 - The second US case of BSE is confirmed. March 13, 2006 - The third US case of BSE is confirmed after an Alabama cow tests positive. September 5, 2008 - Canadian scientists announce a discovery that paves the way for diagnostic testing of live cattle, rather than postmortem. September 13, 2008 - An Alabama research study shows that mad cow disease can sometimes be caused by genetic mutations. March 10, 2009 - An anti-malaria drug known as quinacrine, which had reportedly shown promise against mad cow disease, is found to have no effect on the disease according to a British medical study. March 14, 2009 - The US government permanently bans the slaughter of cows too sick or weak to stand on their own, seeking to further minimize the contraction of mad cow disease. April 24, 2012 - The USDA confirms the fourth case of BSE, found in a dairy cow from central California. The announcement maintains that the cow was never presented for slaughter for human consumption and poses no risk. March 2014 - After 15 years, the United States lifts the ban on beef from the European Union, pending inspections. June 11, 2014 - The USDA announces a recall of 4,000 pounds of beef; a spokesperson cites "an abundance of caution." The meat comes out of the Fruitland American Meat processing plant in Jackson, Missouri. March 24, 2016 - France confirms the first case of BSE since 2011. October 18, 2018 - Scotland confirms an "isolated case" of mad cow disease has been discovered on a farm in Aberdeen.  World marks 30 years since Tiananmen massacre as China censors all mention Hong Kong (CNN)As commemorations for the 30th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre take place worldwide Tuesday, any coverage or discussion of the event will be tightly censored in China. Hundreds of people were killed on June 4, 1989, as People's Liberation Army troops cracked down on pro-democracy protesters in and around Beijing's Tiananmen Square. Events will be held and speeches made to commemorate the massacre and those who died in cities around the world. In central Taipei, capital of self-ruled Taiwan, a massive inflatable version of the iconic "Tank Man," who defied the military as they entered Tiananmen Square, has been on display for several weeks. On Monday, Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council called on Beijing to "face up to historical mistakes and apologize as soon as possible for the crackdown." "In the past 30 years, Beijing lacked the courage to calmly reflect on the historical significance of the June 4th Incident," the council's statement said. "Rather, they blocked the information and distorted the truth about it and tried to conceal the crime." Activists will hold a rally in Washington on Tuesday, with representatives of dozens of human rights groups, including Amnesty International, expected to attend, as well as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement Monday that the massacre still stirred the conscience "of freedom-loving people around the world." "We salute the heroes of the Chinese people who bravely stood up 30 years ago in Tiananmen Square to demand their rights," he said, urging the Chinese government to make a "full, public accounting" of the incident. The biggest event will take place in Hong Kong, the only place on Chinese soil where mass commemorations are held. A candlelit vigil has been held in Victoria Park every year since 1990, with hundreds of thousands attending during key anniversaries. But across the border, the Chinese authorities will be watching attentively for any attempts to remember the massacre. Tourists were visiting Tiananmen Square as usual on Tuesday, under the close watch of police and subject to frequent security checks. On Monday, Chinese state-run newspaper Global Times said the massacre had been a "vaccination" against future "political turmoil" in the country, trumpeting China's economic progress in the decades since. It wasn't the first Chinese comment on the anniversary. Speaking at the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore on Sunday, Defense Minister Wei Fenghe said crushing the protests had been the "correct policy." A day that changed China For weeks in 1989, hundreds of thousands of students and workers gathered in Tiananmen Square, in the heart of the Chinese capital, to call for greater democracy as well as political and social reforms. At the height of the protests it seemed like they could be successful, forcing a government that was already pursuing economic reform to also accept limited political liberalization. But hardliners won an internal battle within the ruling Communist Party and a crackdown was ordered. That decision changed China forever, ending hopes of a gradual move towards democracy. Today the Communist Party is stronger than ever, with President Xi Jinping recently throwing out term limits and clearing his way to serve for life. Beijing has always defended the crackdown. Speaking at an international event Sunday, Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe described the Tiananmen protests as "political turmoil that the central government needed to quell." "The government was decisive in stopping the turbulence, that was the correct policy," he said. The events of June 4 have been wiped from the history books in China and any discussion of the crackdown is strictly censored and controlled. Tiananmen is a prime target of the Great Firewall, China's sprawling online censorship apparatus. Tuesday will be a major test of that system, which activists have spent years attempting to get past by using coded phrases such as "May 35" or "that year." But it's a test that it will likely pass with ease. In the lead-up to June 4, internet users in China complained about difficulties accessing virtual private networks, a common method of bypassing the firewall, while posts on Chinese social media have been restricted or deleted as companies ramp up censorship during this sensitive period. June 4 has been nicknamed "internet maintenance day" for the number of websites that go offline around the anniversary, their owners deciding that being dark is safer than accidentally publishing something which could provoke the ire of the authorities. On Tuesday, CNN's website was blocked by the Great Firewall. While the move is not unprecedented, CNN was available to users in China ahead of the June 4 anniversary, as confirmed by GreatFire.org, an independent site which analyzes internet censorship in China. The Cyberspace Administration of China, the government body which oversees internet regulation, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Other international media organizations, including the New York Times and the BBC, have long been inaccessible to users inside China, according to GreatFire.org. Speaking ahead of the anniversary, Mak Hoi-wah, chairman of the June 4 Museum in Hong Kong, said this type of mass censorship was damaging to the country. "Without understanding the historical facts, we will not be able to move on," Mak said. "The Chinese government is trying to suppress it because they don't want their wrong deeds be remembered by the people." CNN's Ben Westcott and Steven Jiang contributed to this article. China won't be bullied by US, defense minister says at Shangri-La Dialogue Singapore (CNN)China's defense minister on Sunday issued a stern rebuke to the United States amid the ongoing trade war and tension over the South China Sea and Taiwan, saying his country would "not let others prey on or divide us." Gen. Wei Fenghe told delegates at the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore that Beijing would not yield an inch of territory -- and any foreign interference was doomed to failure. He specifically called out the US and its Taiwan Relations Act, the 1979 law which permits Washington to provide defense weapons to the Taipei government and help defend the island from invasion. China considers Taiwan a renegade province. The two separated at the end of a bloody civil war in 1949 and the US only has official diplomatic relations with Beijing. "How can the US enact a law to interfere in China's internal affairs? Is there any sense in that?" Wei asked. Wei cited Abraham Lincoln fighting to keep the US united during the Civil War, adding: "Not a single country in the world would tolerate secession. The US is indivisible and so is China." Wei spoke at the conference a day after acting US Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan, who challenged Beijing to adhere to a "rules-based order" so it could fully gain the trust of the international community.
But Wei said China was just taking measures to ensure prosperity and a better life for all involved. "China has never provoked a war or conflict, taken land or invaded another country," said Wei, the highest-ranking Chinese official to attend Asia's top defense summit in eight years. "China has never preyed on others. We shall not let others prey on or divide us either." Beijing claims almost the entire 1.3 million square mile South China Sea as its sovereign territory and aggressively asserts its stake. US military officials, meanwhile, have vowed to continue enforcing a free and open Indo-Pacific. Wei portrayed the South China Sea situation as largely a stand-off between Washington and Beijing. "Who is threatening security and stability in the South China Sea?" he asked, answering countries outside the region "who come to flex muscles" who would then "walk away and leave a mess behind." Those countries forced China to build up military facilities on the disputed islands, Wei said. "In the face of heavily armed ships and military aircraft, how can we not build defense facilities," he said. Wei defended China's detention of hundreds of thousands of Uyghurs in Xinjiang province for economic and security reasons. "The policy of China in Xinjiang is absolutely right. Because over the past more than two years there is no single terrorist attack in Xinjiang. The living standard of the local people has improved," he said Wei also blamed Washington for the ongoing trade war. "As for the recent trade friction started by the US, if the US wants to talk we will keep the door open. If they want to fight, we will fight until the end," he said. "Bully us? No way," he added. CNN's Mark Phillips contributed to this report.  Rival South China Sea visions in spotlight as Washington, Beijing front Shangri-La Dialogue Hong Kong (CNN)With China-US relations already strained amid an escalating trade war, attention is about to turn to a familiar arena -- the South China Sea. After years of stand-offs and brinkmanship in the hotly contested region, acting US Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan is expected to unveil the Pentagon's new Indo-Pacific strategy at the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore on Saturday. Intriguingly, just one day later Chinese Defense Minister Gen. Wei Fenghe is scheduled to speak about Beijing's role in the Indo-Pacific -- the highest-ranking Chinese official to appear at Asia's premier defense conference in eight years. Their presence is significant. Beijing claims almost the entire 1.3 million square mile South China Sea as its sovereign territory and aggressively asserts its stake, with President Xi Jinping saying it will never give up "any inch of territory." US military officials, meanwhile, have vowed to continue enforcing a free and open Indo-Pacific. William Choong, senior fellow at the Shangri-La Dialogue, said in a tweet Tuesday that the presence of both Wei and Shanahan would set up "a clash of two visions — the US/Japan-led 'free and open' Indo-Pacific and China's 'Asia for Asians.'" Analyst Carl Schuster, a former director of operations at the US Pacific Command's Joint Intelligence Center, told CNN: "Chinese leaders now recognize the value of multilateral defense venues and want to deny the US a monopoly of great power influence." US intentions for the region have already been telegraphed strongly. The Pentagon has stepped up freedom-of-navigation operations to as often as weekly. And the commander of the US Pacific Air Forces said this month that Air Force jets were flying in and around the South China Sea almost daily. Washington has also sent warships through the Taiwan Strait separating China from what it calls its renegade province several times this year. One of Washington's Taiwan Strait operations included a US Coast Guard cutter, which later sailed into the South China Sea — sending the fifth arm of its military and its main maritime law enforcement agency into the Pacific fray. More robust US armament packages also seem to be part of the plan. For bilateral exercises with the Philippines in April, the US loaded the amphibious assault ship USS Wasp with 10 F-35B stealth fighters — four more than it normally carries — and sailed it into the South China Sea. Of course, it's not just the US that's active around the region. Its allies and partners are also involved. France sent a ship through the Taiwan Strait this year, and is showing off its Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier on the sidelines of the conference. In May alone, Japanese, Indian, Philippine and US ships took part in a multilateral South China Sea exercise — while conference host Singapore held live-fire drills with India. A four-ship Australian naval force also visited countries around the region in a three-month trip that ended this week. Meanwhile, US officials have bigger plans for the coming year. In a conference call with reporters this month, US chief of naval operations Adm. John Richardson reiterated plans for the forward deployment of two littoral combat ships — fast, maneuverable warships designed for shallow-water operations — to Singapore this year. The ships would be the US Navy assets stationed closest to the South China Sea. And in March, the commander of US Army forces in the Pacific, Gen. Robert Brown, announced plans to train 10,000 US troops for combat in "a South China Sea scenario." The Philippines and Thailand were mentioned as possible destinations for the troops. The US pressure on Beijing extends back to Washington, where a bipartisan group of senators last week introduced legislation that would impose sanctions on Chinese companies and individuals who help the PLA's South China Sea build-up. "China has been bully in both the South and East China Seas, encroaching on and intimidating its neighbors. Such aggressive behavior cannot go on unchecked," Sen. Ben Cardin, a Maryland Democrat, said in a statement. For its part, China hasn't backed down at all: launching new warships, touting new weapons, keeping its forces active in the South China Sea — around Taiwan and beyond — and blasting Washington. Beijing says it is the US that endangers peace in the region. After the guided-missile destroyer USS Preble sailed near the Chinese-occupied Scarborough Shoal on May 20, the PLA website said: "The provocation of the US warship endangered the safety of ships, aircraft and personnel of both sides, undermined China's sovereignty and security, violated the basic norms governing international relations and sabotaged regional peace and stability." It attributed the comment to Senior Col. Li Huamin, spokesman for the PLA's Southern Theater Command. Li said Chinese ships and aircraft were sent to identify the US destroyer and warn it to leave Chinese-claimed territory. China has no shortage of ships to conduct such surveillance, with the PLA Navy rapidly expanding. On May 12, it launched two Type-52D destroyers in a single day — the 19th and 20th of what are expected to be 30 ships in that class. A US Defense Department report released in early May said China had Asia's largest navy, with more than 300 ships and submarines. Military analyst Euan Graham, who was aboard an Australian warship during a recent South China Sea operation, said it and other Australian and US ships operating in the region were all closely monitored by the Chinese navy. "The ubiquity of PLAN (PLA Navy) vessels shadowing other warships in the (South China Sea) suggests that China's surface force has grown big enough to be able to 'close-mark' at will," Graham wrote on The Strategist blog. Meanwhile, the PLA Navy has held training exercises with Russia off China's east coast and with Thailand to the south. To the north, Chinese air force jets in April conducted what Taiwan said was their most "provocative" mission in years in the Taiwan Strait, crossing the median line between the island and the mainland. "It was an intentional, reckless and provocative action. We've informed regional partners and condemn China for such behavior," Taiwan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement. But it's clear Taiwan can't expect much quarter from China. A May report on the PLA's English-language website touted a new amphibious assault vehicle as "the world's most advanced." With its help, combined with other weapons in China's arsenal, "the People's Liberation Army is well positioned to deal with Taiwan secessionists and potential island disputes." The Shangri-La Dialogue touts itself as a venue "where ministers debate the region's most pressing security challenges, engage in important bilateral talks and come up with fresh solutions together." But against that backdrop of bluster and build-up, it's hard to expect any compromises to emerge from what Wei and Shanahan have to say.  SARS Fast Facts (CNN)Here's some background information about SARS, severe acute respiratory syndrome. Since 2004, there have been no known cases of SARS reported anywhere in the world. General Information:

SARS is an acute viral respiratory illness brought on by a coronavirus. Symptoms include fever, cough, severe headache, dizziness and other flu-like complaints. The illness presents as an atypical pneumonia that does not respond to standard treatments. There were 8,098 confirmed cases of SARS from November 2002 to July 2003, with 774 deaths. Timeline:

November 16, 2002 - What will become known as SARS is first reported in Foshan, China. November 2002-February 2003 - Five people die and more than 300 are reported ill of SARS in Guangdong province, China. February 15-22, 2003 - Liu Jianlun develops SARS symptoms on a trip from Huang Xingchu in the Guangdong province to visit family in Hong Kong. He is considered patient zero, or the first person to die of the disease. He infects people at his hotel and his family. He is hospitalized and dies, as does one member of his family. March 15, 2003 - The World Health Organization (WHO) issues an emergency travel advisory about the illness, calling it a "global threat." March 27, 2003 - Hong Kong officials have quarantined more than 1,000 people and schools close in Singapore. March 29, 2003 - Dr. Carlo Urbani, the WHO physician who identified SARS in patient zero, dies from the virus in Bangkok. April 1, 2003 - An American Airlines flight from Tokyo is quarantined at Mineta San Jose Airport. Three passengers are transported to an area hospital for evaluation of SARS and later released. April 4, 2003 - By executive order, President George W. Bush has SARS added to the list of communicable diseases for which a person can be quarantined. April 14, 2003 - Working independently, American and Canadian scientists announce they have sequenced the genome thought to be the cause of SARS. April 20, 2003 - China cancels a weeklong national holiday celebration as Beijing's SARS cases rise from 37 to 339 in less than a week. A wholesale vegetable market in Singapore closes and all 2,400 people are quarantined. April 22, 2003 - The CDC issues a health alert for travelers in Toronto. April 23, 2003 - Travel warnings and advisories for Shangxi province, Beijing and Toronto have been increased and those for Hong Kong and Guangdong province have been extended. April 28, 2003 - WHO lists Vietnam as the first nation to contain the SARS outbreak. April 29, 2003 - WHO announces it will lift its SARS advisory against travel to Toronto. May 14, 2003 - WHO removes Canada from its list of countries where local transmission of the disease is occurring. May 23, 2003 - WHO removes its travel warnings against Hong Kong and the province of Guangdong in southern China. May 28, 2003 - Russia confirms first case of SARS, in a town bordering China. May 29, 2003 - Canada has 29 active cases of SARS and more than 7,000 under home quarantine. June 17, 2003 - The first major conference on SARS opens in Malaysia, with more than 1,000 scientists and clinicians in attendance. WHO lifts the travel advisory to Taiwan. June 24, 2003 - WHO lifts its SARS travel advisory on Beijing. July 2, 2003 - WHO removes Toronto from its list of areas with recent local transmission of SARS. July 5, 2003 - WHO announces containment of SARS. December 17, 2003 - Taiwanese Department of Health reports a case of SARS. January 5, 2004 - Civet cats are linked through genetic testing to the outbreak of SARS, and the Chinese Health Ministry orders the killing of thousands of the mammals. A man in Guangdong province in China has a confirmed case of SARS April 23, 2004 - The Chinese Health Ministry reports two confirmed cases of SARS, one in the eastern province of Anhui and the other in the capital, Beijing. Two other possible cases are being investigated. April 25, 2004 - The Chinese Health Ministry identifies two new cases of SARS in Beijing. April 29, 2004 - China's Ministry of Health reports two new confirmed SARS cases in Beijing, bringing the total number of possible or confirmed cases there to nine. April 30, 2004 - China's Ministry of Health confirms that a woman who died last week in Anhui province had SARS, the first death related to the illness this year. May 18, 2004 - The last reported outbreak of SARS is contained in China. October 5, 2012 - The CDC's Select Agent Program declares SARS to be a select agent, "a bacterium, virus or toxin that has the potential to pose a severe threat to public health and safety." December 2017 - Chinese researchers locate a population of bats in a Yunnan province cave infected with SARS-related coronaviruses. The newly-discovered strains contain the genetic building blocks of the strain that triggered the SARS outbreak.  China accuses US of 'economic terrorism' as trade war tensions escalate Hong Kong (CNN)China accused the Trump administration of committing "economic terrorism" on Thursday, escalating its war of words with the United States amid rising trade tensions between the two countries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the White House had "brought huge damage to the economy of other countries and the US itself," spokesperson Lu Kang told reporters in Beijing on Thursday. Lu described US trade policy as "typical economic terrorism, economic hegemonism, and economic unilateralism." The statement followed similarly ominous rhetoric from Chinese state media, which issued a stern message to Washington on Wednesday: "Don't say we didn't warn you." The People's Daily, the newspaper of the ruling Communist Party, used the loaded phrase in a commentary on Wednesday, in which it said that China would "never accept" the US' suppression of Chinese development. The warning came as China's top economic planning agency suggested it would be willing curb exports of rare earth minerals, which are crucial for high-tech manufacturing. On May 15, the Trump administration signed an order that potentially banned major Chinese companies, such as technology giant Huawei, from buying vital components such as computer chips from the US. Many of those chips are made using rare earths, of which China is a major exporter. "At present, the United States completely overestimates its ability to control the global supply chain and is due to slap itself in the face when it sobers up from its happy, ignorant self-indulgence," said the commentary published under the pseudonym Wuyuehe. "Don't say we didn't warn you." The phrase has, in the past, been reserved by the Chinese state media for times of serious conflict. The People's Daily used it in 1962 before going into armed conflict against India and again in 1978 before the Vietnam invasion. More recently, though it has appeared in several People's Daily commentaries on issues ranging from Taiwan to the trade war. War of words On May 10, the US raised tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese imports from 10% to 25%, after talks between the two countries broke down less than a week earlier. Negotiations have now stalled, with each side blaming the other for the recent setbacks. Speaking in Japan on Monday, US President Donald Trump said he was "not ready" to make a deal. The US imports far more from China than China does from the US -- one of the reasons for the trade war. As China runs out of US imports to tariff, it has turned to its rare earth exports as a new potential battleground. China accounted for 80% of all rare earth imports by the US between 2014 and 2017, according to the United States Geological Survey, and are were among the few items not hit by US tariffs. In statements posted on its website Wednesday, a representative of China's powerful National Development and Reform Commission again hinted at the possibility of action on rare earths. "What I can tell you is that if anyone wants to use products made of China's rare earth exports to contain China's development, the people of Ganzhou and across China will not be happy with that," the official said, referring to a city in Jiangxi province. On May 20, Chinese President Xi Jinping visited a rare earth factory in Jiangxi province, an unusual personal touch which many analysts and state media saw as a clear message to Washington. "Will the rare earth become a counter-control weapon against China's unwarranted suppression (by the US)? The answer is not mysterious," the People's Daily commentary said. "In fact, consumer electronics, military equipment and many other products produced in the US are highly dependent on China's rare earth resources An editorial in state media tabloid Global Times Wednesday was headlined: "US will rue forcing China's hand on rare earths." But while rare earths could prove a potential pain point for Washington, they may not be the advantage some in China think. Eugene Gholz, who has advised the US government on rare earths, wrote in a report for the Council on Foreign Relations that China's leverage over the rare earths market peaked in 2010 and even then it had been difficult to exploit in Beijing's favor. Furthermore, the US also maintains stockpiles of many key rare earth materials, not least those used in the defense industry. CNN's Yong Xiong and James Griffiths contributed to this article. Louvre workers strike as museum declared world's most popular It's once again been declared the world's most popular museum, but that may not be a good thing for the Louvre in Paris. The museum broke its own record in 2018, welcoming a whopping 10.2 million visitors and claiming the top spot in an index of the world's most-visited museums. But the Louvre's uptick in visitors is proving too much for many of its workers, and strikes by reception and security staff over the number of tourists flooding through its doors have hit opening hours throughout the week. "The Louvre is suffocating," the workers' union said in a statement. "The public has increased by more than 20% since 2009, (but) the palace has not grown," it added. "Today the situation is untenable." The museum was closed on Monday and opened later than advertised on Wednesday, due to a meeting with the disaffected workers. Visitors have queued outside the building throughout the week, and those without bookings have been turned away. But as tensions with its workers rumble on, the museum's bottom line is looking healthy. The Louvre broke its 2012 attendance record last year, marking a dramatic recovery from a sharp downturn in visits in 2017 that was attributed to a general plunge in tourism in Paris. The social media buzz around Beyoncé and Jay Z's music video filmed at the museum may have played into that spike, authors of the 2018 Museum Index say. The report, published by the Themed Entertainment Association (TEA) and the Economics practice at AECOM, also highlights the success of an exhibition of the work of Eugène Delacroix -- the most popular temporary exhibition in the Louvre's history. But while visitor numbers rose at the Louvre, overall attendance was relatively flat among the top 20 museums in the world last year, according to the TEA Museum Index. Attendance grew among the top 20 by just 0.1% from 2017 to 2018. The top museums collectively welcomed 108.1 million visitors last year. The National Museum in China, the world's second most popular museum, drew nearly 8.6 million visitors in 2018, a nearly 7% increase. Rounding out the top five are The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York (No. 3); Vatican Museums in Vatican City (No. 4); and the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, DC (No. 5). World's most popular museums in 2018 1. Louvre, Paris, France 2. National Museum of China, Beijing, China 3. Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, United States 4. Vatican Museums, Vatican City 5. National Air and Space Museum, Washington, United States 6. British Museum, London, United Kingdom 7. Tate Modern, London, United Kingdom 8. National Gallery, London, United Kingdom 9. Natural History Museum, London, United Kingdom 10. American Museum of Natural History, New York, United States 11. National Museum of Natural History, Washington, United States 12. National Gallery of Art, Washington, United States 13. China Science Technology Museum, Beijing, China 14. State Hermitage, St. Petersburg, Russia 15. Zhejiang Museum, Hangzhou, China 16. Victoria & Albert Museum, London, United Kingdom 17. Reina Sofia, Madrid, Spain 18. National Palace Museum, Taipei, Taiwan 19. National Museum of American History, Washington, United States 20. Nanjing Museum, Nanjing, China French Open: Underarm serves revive memories of Chang's cheeky shot (CNN)The red clay, the sliding players and the Eiffel Tower in the distance are familiar sights at the French Open. But something less well known might see a reprise this year -- an underarm serve or two, 30 years after Michael Chang's infamous shot at Roland Garros. It appears tennis is seeing a rise in the unorthodox serve, sparked by Nick Kyrgios' underarm effort in his highly charged win against Rafael Nadal in Acapulco in February. But it was the 17-year-old Chang's cheeky serve to bamboozle behemoth Ivan Lendl, the world No.1, in the fourth round in 1989 that remains the benchmark. "It obviously surprised him," American Chang told CNN Sport. "But I think it shook him up a bit because after that point, it became not just a physical battle but a mental one as well." Visit CNN Sport for more news and videos 'Vivid' The ever controversial Kyrgios also struck the underarm serve at March's Miami Open and throughout the buildup to the French Open, including on the first point against Daniil Medvedev in Rome's first round. Others, including France's Pierre Hugues Herbert and Romania's Monica Niculescu, followed suit as they sought to take their opponents by surprise. Then in the first round in Paris Monday, Alexander Bublik -- no stranger, either, to the serve -- used it and lost the point against Rudolf Molleker. "Obviously they see one person do it and (think) 'It's not bad if I do it,'" Kyrgios told tennis journalist Ben Rothenberg in an NCR podcast which aired a day before he was defaulted at the Italian Open for losing his cool. READ: Kyrgios throws chair, is defaulted For Chang, who was being tormented by cramps at the time, it opened the door to one of the biggest upsets in tennis history and he went on to beat Stefan Edberg in the final to become the youngest men's grand slam winner in the Open Era. "Time goes by very fast," said Chang, whose sole major triumph ended a 34-year American men's drought at Roland Garros "I played 16-plus years on tour, and even that in itself went by very fast. So the French Open has always been very vivid in my mind and certain aspects, it's almost like it just happened yesterday." READ: Osaka escapes after French Open scare READ: Federer makes winning return 'Spur of the moment' Chang, whose parents grew up in Taiwan, recalls being glued to the television that fortnight watching the protests unfold in Beijing's Tiananmen Square.  But on the court he was making history of his own. Having won three French Opens, Lendl appeared to be easing into the quarterfinals after taking the first two sets 6-4 6-4. Chang, part of a golden US generation in men's tennis that included Pete Sampras, Andre Agassi, Jim Courier and Todd Martin, took the next two 6-3 6-3 to force a decider. The odds were still against the quick counterpuncher, despite the shift in momentum. Lendl's 13-3 record in his previous 16 grand slam fifth sets perfectly illustrated why he was considered the fittest men's player of the era.  Chang led by a break at 4-3 but knew closing out the contest would be difficult, especially with those painful cramps. At changeovers, he didn't dare sit down for fear of not being able to get back up. At 15-30 in the eighth game, he made a "spur of the moment" decision to hit the serve. "My serve was very soft at the time because I couldn't really use my legs, just basically rolling my arm over," said Chang. "Being down 15-30 I was on the verge of losing serve again. I was thinking to myself, 'I gotta hit something different here because sooner or later Ivan is going to pick up what he needs to do and I'm going to end up losing.'" READ: Serena rallies to avoid upset READ: Osaka can win 10 slams, says Li Passing shot Chang's serve landed deep in the service box, Lendl moved in to strike a forehand, but couldn't place it into the corner. He had no other choice given his court positioning to keep moving toward the net. Chang's flat forehand passing shot clipped the net, making what would have been a difficult volley even harder. Lendl had no chance.  The avid fisherman reeled in his foe. "Ivan being the professional that he is, he would have trained for every possible scenario, every possible circumstance, but this was something that was quite new," said Chang. "It was a bit unfortunate for Ivan that my pass happened to clip the top of the tape. It was probably even more annoying that it happened on top of having to return an underhand serve from a 17-year-old who was cramping." Television cameras caught one fan on center court with his hands on his face, shaking in apparent disbelief. Viewers around the world felt the same. "The crowd went absolutely nuts," said Chang. "I was pumped up because I was just like, 'Hey, let's sneak out this game,' because it was a big difference in being 15-40 or 30-30. From then on it seemed like the tide turned in my favor. I can't explain why it did but for some reason it did." Indeed, Chang didn't concede another game, ending the four hour 40-minute duel by coaxing a double fault. No sour grapes To his credit, Lendl -- regarded by many as emotionless and a "robot" -- avoided sour grapes. He instead praised Chang, telling reporters he showed "a lot of courage." The pair didn't see each other in the locker room but did bump into each other several weeks later at Wimbledon's practice venue.  "I'm still 17 years old, he's still No. 1 in the world and I'm like, 'What is he going to say?'" said Chang. "I kind of kept my head down and walked to the side and he didn't have any of it. He was bee lining toward me. I was like, 'I can't avoid this now,' because there was this little walkway where it's only maybe 12 steps wide. "So he walks up straight toward me and I was like, 'How are you doing?' He put his hand out, looked me straight in the eye and shook my hand and goes, 'Michael, incredible job at the French Open. Congratulations.' "When you see him today and on the tennis court, he's very serious, very professional, very intense, very much that mentality. But off the court if anybody knows him, very different. Likes to be humorous, talking a lot, engaging a lot."  Thirty years on, Lendl still doesn't harbor any ill will toward Chang and his use of the underarm serve. He joked that he had seen plenty of underarm serves in the 12-and-unders. "Michael played well, fought hard and deserved to win," he told CNN. "I didn't and still don't view it as a problem. Michael was one of the nicest people of that era and I don't believe he would do anything unfair." And besides, said Lendl, the unusually early exit from Roland Garros allowed him to get more preparation time for Wimbledon. Played his best at Wimbledon Even though he didn't win at SW19 in 1989 -- Wimbledon was the lone grand slam title to elude Lendl -- he stretched eventual champion Boris Becker to five sets in a semifinal where the German benefited from a rain delay. "I played my best that year," said Lendl. "That's why I skipped Roland Garros the following year and spent four weeks in Australia getting ready for the grass-court season." Chang never hit another underarm serve in his career, nor was he ever on the receiving end. Lendl did hit some when the returner "was on the back fence" but not many. Chang, however, did topple Lendl in their only other best-of-five set clash at the 1991 Grand Slam Cup in Germany on carpet, a surface now virtually extinct in tennis.  Nowadays, they both continue to coach. When they chat, it's about golf, their families -- Lendl has five daughters and Chang two -- and the players they work with. "I've always had the utmost respect for him, not only as a professional but as a person," said Chang.  China rages against Bolton meeting with Taiwan as anti-invasion drills begin on the island Taipei, Taiwan (CNN)The Chinese government has slammed Washington for engaging with Taipei and ordered the Trump administration to cease diplomatic engagements with the island, after a highly unusual public meeting between top officials from the US and Taiwan. In May, US national security adviser John Bolton met with one of Taiwan's top defense officials, National Security Council Secretary-General David Lee, who was visiting the US. Taiwan's official news agency CNA said it was the first meeting between the top security advisers of both governments since 1979, when Washington severed formal ties with Taipei. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said Monday that Beijing "deplored and strongly objected" to the meeting and urged the US to stop "having official exchanges or upgrading substantive relations with Taiwan." Taiwan and China were separated at the end of a bloody civil war in 1949 and officially the US only has official diplomatic relations with Beijing. "The one-China principle is the political basis for China-US relations," Lu said. "We are firmly against the US engaging in any official contact with Taiwan in whatever form and under whatever pretext. "We also stand resolutely against any attempt to create 'two Chinas' or 'one China, one Taiwan.' This is our clear and consistent position." As the China and US engage in a tense trade war, however, Washington has been building closer ties with Taiwan, the island that China views as a renegade province. On Saturday, Taiwan announced it had renamed its unofficial embassy in Washington from the Coordination Council for North American Affairs to the Taiwan Council for US Affairs, after discussions with Washington. That marked the first time a Taiwan government organization had been renamed to include the words "Taiwan" and "US." "Really got to love the new name," Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu said on the ministry's official Twitter. And in March, Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen announced she wanted to purchase advanced new weapons from US President Donald Trump's administration. Beijing's comments came as Taiwan began its annual Han Kuang Exercise on Tuesday. The military drills are aimed at ensuring the island's readiness for an invasion by communist China's People's Liberation Army (PLA). President Tsai watched as the air force landed F-16V aircraft on a highway in eastern Changhua county, an exercise designed to test the military's refueling and rearming capacity if major airfields on the island were occupied or destroyed by the PLA. Hundreds of Taiwanese flocked to the roadside to watch the drill, waving flags and displaying banners showing their support for the island's airforce. When asked about the future of US-Taiwan defense relations -- and whether the Bolton meeting was the new normal -- Taiwan military spokesman Maj. Gen. Chen Chung-Chi said the two governments would continue to work together. "In the Asia Pacific region, we are just like the US, who share common core values including freedom of democracy and human rights (with)," he said. "We also hope that we can play the role of defender of peace in the region. This is to serve the common interests of Taiwan and the US." CNN's Serenitie Wang contributed to this article. Breakfast around the world: How different countries start the day When it comes to breakfast foods across the globe, there are as many ways to enjoy the first meal of the day as there are to say "good morning." From creamy cornbread cake in Brazil to savory Tunisian chickpea soup, from fluffy Ukrainian pancakes to sweet coconut jam toasts in Singapore, these 21 international specialties offer a breakfast option for every palate. And even if the flavors in some of these dishes might be unexpected based on what your first meal of the day typically consists of, the presentations are likely familiar. Read through our list -- in no particular order -- and learn about the delicious diversity of our world's breakfast cultures, and maybe even find food inspiration for your next trip. Switzerland On weekdays, the Swiss frequently stick to quick but filling breakfasts like the traditional birchermüesli, the granola-style blend of oats with fruit and nuts that's usually served over thick yogurt. But on weekends, it's time for Swiss brunch. Along with roesti (potato pancakes), cheeses, and cold cuts, the centerpiece of the brunch table is zopf. This braided egg bread is similar to challah or brioche, and served with honey, butter, and jam. Ethiopia When you're having qurs (that's "breakfast" in Amharic, Ethiopia's official language), chances are you'll be eating porridge. While there are many varieties and names for hot grain cereals served throughout the country, savory genfo is one of the most popular. Genfo is made by mixing barley flour with boiling water until a thick, sticky dough forms, then shaped into a mound with a well in the center. The well is then filled with clarified butter blended with berbere, the complex spice blend, and dollops of yogurt are often spooned around the edges of the genfo. Japan Japanese breakfasts fall squarely on the savory side of the food spectrum: In fact, much of what you can eat for breakfast in Japan wouldn't be out of place at any other meal of the day. Many morning repasts consist of a selection of small plates, each with a few bites of a traditional Japanese dish. Fish like salmon or mackerel, miso soup, pickled vegetables and rice are all represented. There's also tamagoyaki, a slightly sweet rolled omelet made from thin layers of egg in a rectangular pan that gives it its signature shape. Iceland Start your day in Iceland with a jolt of life-giving lysi: cod liver oil, a plentiful source of omega-3 fatty acids and one of the byproducts of the country's fish industry. Though it's been said to combat seasonal affective disorder, among other health benefits, it's not the only breakfast option. For a more palatable morning meal, have a bowl of hafragrautur, a thick oatmeal. Top it with nuts, raisins, and sugar, or add a helping of skyr, the thick yogurt-like cultured dairy product that's actually a fresh cheese. Singapore If "Crazy Rich Asians" didn't already whet your appetite for Singapore, let the multitude of dishes served in the hawker centers entice you further. These open-air food courts are always open for business, and it's not uncommon to see hungry people scooping up bowls of savory curry noodles first thing in the morning. For a traditional hawker-style breakfast, kaya toast is a must-have. This unassuming-looking toasted sandwich is spread with flavorful kaya, a sweet jam made with coconut milk, eggs, and sometimes pandan leaf for vibrant green color and flavor. It's great with coffee or tea, and each stall or shop makes kaya toast its own way -- so why not try a few? Morocco Along with mint tea, semolina breads are mainstays on the Moroccan breakfast table. Baghrir are thin, yeasted rounds studded with tiny holes that give them the name "thousand-hole pancakes" or "thousand-hole crepes." Instead of maple syrup, these light semolina breads are topped with butter and honey. Harcha are thicker, griddled biscuit-style rounds that have a crispy crust from a dusting of coarse semolina. They can be split like English muffins and served with cheese or butter, jam, and honey. Australia For those who love grain bowls, avocado and other savory toasts, and other staples of all-day café culture, Australia's "brekkie" will be a match made in heaven. With a focus on fresh produce, whole grains, and nourishing combinations, Australian breakfasts can range from the classic avocado toast on seeded bread to a farro bowl topped with a poached egg and pickled vegetables or rice pudding with yogurt, seeds and berries. Don't forget the flat white -- an espresso with a high ratio of steamed milk that even Starbucks can't get enough of. Argentina There's one word that defines the Argentinean breakfast spread: facturas. The overarching term for pastries encompasses a sweet and doughy world of shapes, sizes, and flavors. Some of the more popular offerings include medialunes, a croissant-shaped brioche pastry; bombas and bolas de fraille, or fried doughnuts; and churros, which are often dipped in chocolate. Many are filled with dulce de leche or crema pastelera, a vanilla custard. Pair a platter of facturas with highly caffeinated yerba mate or coffee. Germany In the land of many wurst, it's not surprising that sausage and other meats take a starring role in frühstück, the traditional German breakfast. This buffet spread is filled with variety: sausages, cold cuts, cheeses, bread and rolls (including pretzels), as well as fresh fruit, soft-boiled eggs and condiments like homemade jam. The abundant choices are meant for sampling and assembling as you please. Brazil If you can't stop eating pao de queijo, the puffy baked cheese rolls that are a staple of Brazilian culture, you'll be happy to know you can eat them for breakfast too. But for a variation on Brazilian breakfast breads, try bolo de fuba. It's a cornbread-style cake with a moist and creamy texture that comes from the addition of grated Parmesan cheese and/or shredded coconut. Sliced and served like a pound cake, it's frequently an afternoon pick-me-up too. Tunisia Fans of savory meals will love lablabi, a spiced chickpea soup that, yes, is a breakfast food in Tunisia. Chickpeas and harissa paste are the two constants in virtually every lablabi recipe, but the customizations of this simple, soul-warming soup are up to every cook. Sometimes thickened with pieces of stale crusty bread, sometimes brightened by a squeeze of a lemon, sometimes made creamy with yogurt or topped with olives, there are infinite ways to enjoy it. And because it's often topped with a poached egg, it's a breakfast that will fill you up all day. Bulgaria Popara follows in the long tradition of using leftover bread as the next day's meal. This warm, comforting breakfast is a childhood favorite of many Bulgarians -- it's not quite a porridge and not quite a bread pudding, but shares characteristics of both. Warm milk or tea is poured over a bowl of cubed bread, crumbled Bulgarian sirene cheese, butter and sugar, and left to soak until soft and spoonable. Sirene is a feta-style cheese that's creamier and softer than many of the Eastern European brined cheeses, so it doesn't give the dish as much of a salty flavor and more of a fresh, goat cheese-like tanginess. Turkey Kahvalti, the traditional Turkish breakfast spread, is a lavish affair that has a little something for everyone. For those who love to graze and snack, the abundant options will leave nothing lacking. Turkish breads like simit, a circular seeded loaf, or pide, a chewy flatbread, accompany bowls of feta or other fresh, salty cheeses; olives; halvah; and honey and preserves. Eggs are often cooked with pan-fried slices of sucuk, a dried beef sausage spiced with garlic, red pepper, cumin and sumac. Guam This small island -- technically an American territory -- In the Pacific Ocean is a melting pot of culinary culture, with foods that show the influence of the various countries that colonized the land over the centuries. Like many Asian Pacific nations, Spam is a favorite add-in for breakfasts of fried rice and eggs. But just as popular is the local chamorro pork sausage, a fresh chorizo-style sausage named after the indigenous population of the island. Grilled in links or patties, it's breakfast sausage like no other. Portugal Coffee drinks with lots of milk are the first order of business when getting breakfast in Portugal. Uma mei de leite, a half-and-half blend of coffee and milk, or um galao, which is mostly milk with a shot of coffee, are an easy way to ease into the day. Though many Portuguese have a simple piece of toast or bread alongside their drink, the perfect pairing for these milky coffees are pasteis de nata, or egg custard tarts. With a flaky puff pastry shell and a creamy custard filling, they're equally popular as a snack for the 11 a.m. cafe break, another Portuguese morning ritual. Ukraine Tender and fluffy on the inside and crispy golden brown on the outside, Ukrainian syrniki pancakes wouldn't be out of place on a five-star brunch buffet. Yet they're made with a simple ingredient: fresh farmer's cheese, known as tvorog, with a consistency similar to ricotta or cottage cheese. The crisp exterior comes from a quick dredge in flour, like a breakfast fritter. Like American pancakes or French toast, they can be topped with fresh fruit, preserves, or powdered sugar, but like potato pancakes or blintzes, they can go savory with a side of sour cream. Jamaica For breakfast in Jamaica, it couldn't get more patriotic than eating the national dish: ackee and saltfish. Ackee, a delicately sweet pear-shaped fruit, is sautéed with salt cod, tomatoes, garlic, chilies and onion in a breakfast scramble that brings together sweet, salty, and spicy for a one-of-a-kind island taste. Though it looks similar to scrambled eggs, that's just the creamy yellow ackee, Jamaica's national fruit, in the dish. Taiwan While a glass of milk is often advertised in the US as "part of a balanced breakfast," dòu jiāng takes the tradition to new levels. This fresh soy milk is a specialty of Taiwan, typically made fresh by street vendors and restaurants every morning for their customers. Served hot in the winter and cold in the summer, it's a refreshing contrast to the chewy scallion pancakes, dumplings and dough fritters that are also part of the usual Taiwanese breakfast. Dip your fritters in the soy milk for an extra treat. Italy Italians are almost too busy for breakfast -- or so you'd think from the number of coffee bars where guests take their espresso standing up for a quick jolt at the beginning of the day. But whether standing or relaxing for a moment at a café table, there's always time for a coffee and Italian pastry to go with it. For the morning, espresso or cappuccino is frequently paired with a simple sweet like a cornetto, or croissant, filled with custard or Nutella. Sfogliatelle, a crunchy and flaky multi-layered pastry with a sweet ricotta cheese filling, is another breakfast standard. United States of America When it comes to classic American brunch, you can't go wrong with fluffy buttermilk pancakes stacked high alongside a pile of crispy bacon. The contrasting textures and salty-sweet flavor pairing make this breakfast a favorite of kids and adults alike. And while pancakes can be dressed up by adding in everything from fresh blueberries to chocolate chips to pecans, the classic toppings of butter and maple syrup remain the gold standard. Russia Though it sounds indulgent, caviar is actually a Russian breakfast food. Whether red or black caviar, it remains a favorite topping for large, folded crepe-like blini or small, thick oladyi pancakes at weekend brunches. On weekdays, however, breakfasts are simpler. On these mornings, caviar is spread across dark, sweet rye bread, known simply as black bread, sometimes with a smear of butter as well. Most importantly, a pot of black tea is a fixture on every breakfast table. Casey Barber is a food writer, photographer, and illustrator; the author of the cookbooks "Pierogi Love: New Takes on an Old-World Comfort Food" and "Classic Snacks Made from Scratch: 70 Homemade Versions of Your Favorite Brand-Name Treats"; and editor of the website Good. Food. Stories. Huawei CEO says China shouldn't punish Apple Hong Kong (CNN Business)Ren Zhengfei, the CEO and founder of embattled Chinese tech company Huawei, is defending US rival Apple. Asked in an interview with Bloomberg about calls in China to boycott Apple (AAPL), Ren said he would be opposed to any such retaliatory action from Beijing even as tensions with the United States escalate. "That will not happen first of all, and second of all if that happens, I'll be the first to protest," Ren told Bloomberg. "Apple is the world's leading company. If there was no Apple, there would be no mobile internet," Ren said. "Apple is my teacher, it's advancing in front of us, as a student why should I oppose my teacher?" he added. The comments come as Ren's company is in crisis mode. The US Department of Commerce placed Huawei on a trade blacklist earlier this month, effectively barring it from conducting business with American companies. The ban forced suppliers like Google (GOOGL) and ARM Holdings to cut off ties with the Chinese company. Top carriers in the UK and Japan are also delaying the launch of Huawei smartphones. The US restrictions threaten Huawei's position as the world's largest telecommunications equipment maker and No. 2 smartphone brand. Washington's ban on the Chinese company "could stir up the smartphone industry by pausing Huawei's positive momentum," analysts at Fitch Ratings wrote in a note on Sunday. The ban could also benefit industry leader Samsung as consumers around the world look for alternatives to Huawei smartphones, they added. Huawei and Apple have had vastly different fortunes in Huawei's home market of China. Huawei shipped nearly 30 million phones in China in the quarter ended March, up 41% compared to the same period last year, according to research firm Canalys. Meanwhile, Apple saw its iPhone sales in China drop 30% in the same period. The country remains a key market for Apple. Greater China, which includes Taiwan and Hong Kong, accounted for nearly 18% of net sales in the quarter ended March. During an earnings call last month, Apple CEO Tim Cook said iPhone sales in China should be boosted by "improved trade dialogue" between Beijing and Washington and "very positive customer response to the pricing actions we've taken in that market." But since then, trade talks between Washington and Beijing broke down, and both sides ratcheted up tensions by slapping more penalties on billions of dollars worth of American and Chinese products. The renewed trade dispute could hurt Apple, according to Fitch Ratings analysts. "Apple could be another victim of the US-China trade war and its market-share loss may accelerate in the Chinese market," they said. US President Donald Trump last week called Huawei "very dangerous," but then said he could see the company being included in a broader trade deal with China. Ren told Bloomberg that using his company as a bargaining chip is "a big joke."' "How are we related to China-US trade?" he said.  China is not the source of our economic problems -- corporate greed is Jeffrey Sachs is a professor and director of the Center for Sustainable Development at Columbia University. The opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author; view more opinion articles on CNN. (CNN)China is not an enemy. It is a nation trying to raise its living standards through education, international trade, infrastructure investment, and improved technologies. In short, it is doing what any country should do when confronted with the historical reality of being poor and far behind more powerful countries. Yet the Trump administration is now aiming to stop China's development, which could prove to be disastrous for both the United States and the entire world. China is being made a scapegoat for rising inequality in the United States. While US trade relations with China have been mutually beneficial over the years, some US workers have been left behind, notably Midwestern factory workers facing competition due to rising productivity and comparatively low (though rising) labor costs in China. Instead of blaming China for this normal phenomenon of market competition, we should be taxing the soaring corporate profits of our own multinational corporations and using the revenues to help working-class households, rebuild crumbling infrastructure, promote new job skills and invest in cutting-edge science and technology. We should understand that China is merely trying to make up for lost time after a very long period of geopolitical setbacks and related economic failures. Here is important historical background that is useful to understand China's economic development in the past 40 years. In 1839, Britain attacked China because it refused to allow British traders to continue providing Chinese people with addictive opium. Britain prevailed, and the humiliation of China's defeat in the First Opium War, ending in 1842, contributed in part to a mass uprising against the Qing Dynasty called the Taiping Rebellion that ended up causing more than 20 million deaths. A Second Opium War against Britain and France ultimately led to the continued erosion of China's power and internal stability. Toward the end of the 19th century, China lost a war to the newly industrializing Japan, and was subjected to yet more one-sided demands by Europe and the United States for trade. These humiliations led to another rebellion, followed by yet another defeat, at the hands of foreign powers. China's Qing Dynasty fell in 1911, after which China quickly succumbed to warlords, internal strife and Japan's invasion of China beginning in 1931. The end of World War II was followed by civil war, the creation of the People's Republic of China in 1949 and then the upheavals of Maoism, including millions of deaths from famine in the Great Leap Forward, which ended in the early 1960s, and the mass destabilization of the Cultural Revolution and its aftermath until 1977. China's rapid development on a market basis therefore started only in 1978, when Deng Xiaoping came to power and launched sweeping economic reforms. While China has seen incredible growth in the past four decades, the legacy of more than a century of poverty, instability, invasion and foreign threats still looms large. Chinese leaders would like to get things right this time, and that means they are unwilling to bow to the United States or other Western powers again. China is now the second-largest economy in the world, when GDP is measured at market prices. Yet it is a country still in the process of catching up from poverty. In 1980, according to IMF data, China's GDP per capita was a mere 2.5% of the United States, and by 2018 had reached only 15.3% of the US level. When GDP is measured in purchasing-power-parity terms, by using a common set of "international prices" to value GDP in all countries, China's income per capita in 2018 was a bit higher at 28.9% of the United States. China has roughly followed the same development strategy as Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore before it. From an economic standpoint, it is not doing anything particularly unusual for a country that is playing catch up.The constant US refrain that China "steals" technologies is highly simplistic. Countries that are lagging behind upgrade their technologies in many ways, through study, imitation, purchases, mergers, foreign investments, extensive use of off-patent knowledge and, yes, copying. And with any fast-changing technologies, there are always running battles over intellectual property. That's true even among US companies today -- this kind of competition is simply a part of the global economic system. Technology leaders know they shouldn't count on keeping their lead through protection, but through continued innovation. The United States relentlessly adopted British technologies in the early 19th century. And when any country wants to close a technology gap, it recruits know-how from abroad. The US ballistic missile program, as it is well known, was built with the help of former Nazi rocket scientists recruited to the United States after World War II. If China were a less populous Asian country, say like South Korea, with a little more than 50 million people, it would simply be hailed by the United States as a great development success story -- which it is. But because it is so big, China refutes America's pretensions to run the world. The United States, after all, is a mere 4.2% of the world's population, less than a fourth of China's. The truth is that neither country is in a position to dominate the world today, as technologies and know-how are spreading more quickly across the globe than ever before. Trade with China provides the United States with low-cost consumer goods and increasingly high-quality products. It also causes job losses in sectors such as manufacturing that compete directly with China. That is how trade works. To accuse China of unfairness in this is wrong -- plenty of American companies have reaped the benefits of manufacturing in China or exporting goods there. And US consumers enjoy higher living standards as a result of China's low-cost goods. The US and China should continue to negotiate and develop improved rules for bilateral and multilateral trade instead of stoking a trade war with one-sided threats and over-the-top accusations. The most basic lesson of trade theory, practice and policy is not to stop trade -- which would lead to falling living standards, economic crisis and conflict. Instead, we should share the benefits of economic growth so that the winners who benefit compensate the losers. Yet under American capitalism, which has long strayed from the cooperative spirit of the New Deal era, today's winners flat-out reject sharing their winnings. As a result of this lack of sharing, American politics are fraught with conflicts over trade. Greed comprehensively dominates Washington policies. The real battle is not with China but with America's own giant companies, many of which are raking in fortunes while failing to pay their own workers decent wages. America's business leaders and the mega-rich push for tax cuts, more monopoly power and offshoring -- anything to make a bigger profit -- while rejecting any policies to make American society fairer. Trump is lashing out against China, ostensibly believing that it will once again bow to a Western power. It is willfully trying to crush successful companies like Huawei by changing the rules of international trade abruptly and unilaterally. China has been playing by Western rules for the past 40 years, gradually catching up the way that America's Asian allies did in the past. Now the United States is trying to pull the rug out from under China by launching a new Cold War. Unless some greater wisdom prevails, we could spin toward conflict with China, first economically, then geopolitically and militarily, with utter disaster for all. There will be no winners in such a conflict. Yet such is the profound shallowness and corruption of US politics today that we are on such a path. A trade war with China won't solve our economic problems. Instead we need homegrown solutions: affordable health care, better schools, modernized infrastructure, higher minimum wages and a crackdown on corporate greed. In the process, we would also learn that we have far more to gain through cooperation with China rather than reckless and unfair provocation.  Same-Sex Marriage Fast Facts (CNN)Here's some background information about same-sex marriage in the United States and worldwide. According to Pew Research Center, support for same-sex marriage in the United States has steadily increased over the last several years. More than two dozen countries also have laws allowing same-sex marriage. Most of these are in Europe and South America. Taiwan is the first country in Asia to legalize same-sex marriage. US Timeline:

September 21, 1996 - President Bill Clinton signs the Defense of Marriage Act banning federal recognition of same-sex marriage and defining marriage as "a legal union between one man and one woman as husband and wife." December 3, 1996 - A state court ruling makes Hawaii the first state to recognize that gay and lesbian couples are entitled to the same privileges as heterosexual married couples. The ruling is stayed and appealed the following day. December 20, 1999 - The Vermont Supreme Court rules that gay and lesbian couples should be given the same rights as heterosexual couples. November 18, 2003 - The Massachusetts Supreme Court rules that a ban on same-sex marriage is unconstitutional. February 12-March 11, 2004 - Nearly 4,000 same-sex couples get marriage licenses in San Francisco, but the California Supreme Court eventually orders San Francisco to stop issuing marriage licenses. The nearly 4,000 sanctioned marriages are later nullified by the California Supreme Court. February 20, 2004 - Sandoval County, New Mexico issues 26 same-sex marriage licenses, but they are nullified by the state attorney general the same day. February 24, 2004 - President George W. Bush announces support for a federal constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage. February 27, 2004 - New Paltz, New York Mayor Jason West performs same-sex marriages for about a dozen couples. In June, the Ulster County Supreme Court issues West a permanent injunction against marrying same-sex couples. March 3, 2004 - In Portland, Oregon, the Multnomah County Clerk's office issues marriage licenses for same-sex couples. Neighboring Benton County follows on March 24. May 17, 2004 - Massachusetts legalizes same-sex marriage, the first state in the United States to do so. July 14, 2004 - The US Senate blocks a proposed constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage from moving forward in Congress. September 30, 2004 - The US House of Representatives votes against amending the Constitution to prohibit same-sex marriage. October 5, 2004 - A Louisiana judge throws out an amendment to the state constitution banning same-sex marriage because the ban also includes civil unions. In 2005, the Louisiana State Supreme Court reinstates the constitutional amendment. November 2, 2004 - Eleven states pass constitutional amendments defining marriage as being between a man and a woman only: Arkansas, Georgia, Kentucky, Michigan, Mississippi, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon and Utah. March 14, 2005 - A Superior Court judge rules that California's law that limits marriage to a union between a man and a woman is unconstitutional. April 14, 2005 - Oregon's Supreme Court nullifies the same-sex marriage licenses issued there in 2004. May 12, 2005 - A federal judge strikes down Nebraska's ban on protection and recognition of same-sex couples. August 5, 2004 - A Washington judge rules the state's law defining marriage is unconstitutional. September 6, 2005 - The California Legislature passes a bill to legalize same-sex marriage. The legislature is the first in the United States to act without a court order to sanction same-sex marriages. California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger later vetoes the bill. September 14, 2005 - The Massachusetts Legislature rejects a proposed amendment to its state constitution to ban same-sex marriages. October 7, 2005 - The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court hears a case challenging a 1913 law prohibiting nonresidents from marrying in Massachusetts if the marriage is prohibited in their home state. The law has been used in recent years to prevent same-sex couples from getting married. November 8, 2005 - Texas becomes the 19th state to adopt a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage. January 20, 2006 - A Maryland judge rules the state's law defining marriage is unconstitutional. March 30, 2006 - The highest court in Massachusetts rules that same-sex couples who live in other states cannot get married in Massachusetts unless same-sex marriage is legal in their home states. June 6, 2006 - Alabama voters pass a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage. July 6, 2006 - The New York Court of Appeals rules that a state law banning same-sex marriage is legal, and the Georgia Supreme Court upholds the state's constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage. November 7, 2006 - Constitutional amendments to ban same-sex marriage are on the ballot in eight states. Seven states: Colorado, Idaho, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Virginia, and Wisconsin, pass theirs, while Arizona voters reject the ban. May 15, 2008 - The California Supreme Court rules that the state's ban on same-sex marriages is unconstitutional. The decision goes into effect on June 16 at 5:01 p.m. October 10, 2008 - The Connecticut Supreme Court in Hartford rules that the state must allow gay and lesbian couples to marry. Same-sex marriage becomes legal in Connecticut on November 12, 2008. November 4, 2008 - Voters in California approve Proposition 8, which will amend the state's constitution to ban same-sex marriage. Voters in Arizona and Florida also approve similar amendments to their state constitutions. April 3, 2009 - The Iowa Supreme Court strikes down a state law banning same-sex marriage. Marriages become legal in Iowa on April 27, 2009. April 7, 2009 - Vermont legalizes same-sex marriages after both the state Senate and House of Representatives overturn a veto by Governor Jim Douglas. The Senate vote is 23-5, while the House vote is 100-49. Marriages become legal on September 1, 2009. May 6, 2009 - Same-sex marriage becomes legal in Maine, as Gov. John Baldacci signs a bill less than an hour after the state legislature approves it. Voters in Maine repeal the state's law allowing same-sex marriage in November 2009. May 6, 2009 - New Hampshire lawmakers pass a same-sex marriage bill. Marriages will become legal on January 1, 2010. May 26, 2009 - The California Supreme Court upholds the passage of Proposition 8, banning same-sex marriage. However, 18,000 such marriages performed before Proposition 8 will remain valid. June 17, 2009 - President Barack Obama signs a memorandum granting some benefits to same-sex partners of federal employees. December 15, 2009 - The city council of Washington, DC votes to legalize same-sex marriage, 11-2. Marriages become legal on March 9, 2010. July 9, 2010 - Judge Joseph Tauro of Massachusetts rules that the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act is unconstitutional because it interferes with a state's right to define marriage. August 4, 2010 - Chief US District Judge Vaughn Walker from the United States District Court/Northern District of California decides that Perry v. Schwarzenegger (Prop 8) is unconstitutional. February 23, 2011 - The Obama Administration instructs the Justice Department to stop defending the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act in court. June 24, 2011 - The New York Senate votes to legalize same-sex marriage. Governor Andrew Cuomo signs the bill just before midnight. September 30, 2011 - The US Department of Defense issues new guidelines allowing military chaplains to perform same-sex ceremonies. February 1, 2012 - The Washington Senate passes a bill to legalize same-sex marriage, by a vote of 28-21. On February 8, 2012, the House approves the measure by a vote of 55-43. The bill is signed into law in Washington by Governor Christine Gregoire on February 13, 2012, but opposition vows to halt its implementation. February 7, 2012 - A three-judge panel with the 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco rules that Proposition 8, the voter-approved same-sex marriage ban, violates the constitution. February 17, 2012 - New Jersey Governor Chris Christie vetoes a bill legalizing same-sex marriage. February 23, 2012 - The Maryland Senate passes a bill to legalize same-sex marriage and Governor Martin O'Malley promises to sign it into law. The law goes into effect on January 1, 2013. May 8, 2012 - North Carolina voters pass a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, putting a ban that already existed in state law into the state's charter. May 9, 2012 - Excerpts from an interview with ABC air in which Obama endorses same-sex marriage, the first such statement by a sitting president. He feels that the legal decision should be up to the states to determine. May 31, 2012 - The 1st US Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston rules that the Defense of Marriage Act, (DOMA), discriminates against gay couples. June 5, 2012 - The 9th Circuit US Court of Appeals in San Francisco denies a request to review an earlier court decision stating that California's Proposition 8 violates the Constitution. A stay on same-sex marriages in California remains in place until the issue is exhausted in the courts. October 18, 2012 - The 2nd US Circuit Court of Appeals rules that the Defense of Marriage Act, (DOMA), violates the Constitution's equal protection clause, deciding in favor of widow Edith Windsor, an 83-year-old lesbian who sued the federal government for charging her more than $363,000 in estate taxes after being denied the benefit of spousal deductions. November 6, 2012 - Voters in Maryland, Washington and Maine pass referendums legalizing same-sex marriage. This is the first time same-sex marriage has been approved by a popular vote in the United States. Voters in Minnesota reject a ban on the issue. December 5, 2012 - Washington Governor Christine Gregoire signs Referendum 74, the Marriage Equality Act, into law. Same-sex marriage becomes legal in Washington the following day. December 7, 2012 - The US Supreme Court announces it will hear two constitutional challenges to state and federal laws dealing with the recognition of gay and lesbian couples to legally wed. Oral arguments in the appeal are held in March 2013, with a ruling expected by late June. December 29, 2012 - Maine's law to legalize same-sex marriage goes into effect at midnight after Maine voters passed the state referendum during the November elections. January 25, 2013 - The Rhode Island House of Representatives passes a bill legalizing same-sex marriage. On May 2, 2013, Rhode Island Gov. Lincoln Chafee signs the bill legalizing the marriages after the state legislature approves the measure, and the law goes into effect in August 2013. February 14, 2013 - The Illinois Senate votes to legalize same-sex marriage. The bill now moves to the House for a vote. May 7, 2013 - Delaware legalizes same-sex marriage. It goes into effect July 1, 2013. May 14, 2013 - Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton signs a bill giving same-sex couples the right to marry. The law goes into effect in August 1, 2013. June 26, 2013 - The Supreme Court rejects parts of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) in a 5-4 decision, dismissing an appeal over same-sex marriage on jurisdictional grounds and ruling same-sex spouses legally married in a state may receive federal benefits. It also rules that private parties do not have "standing" to defend California's voter-approved ballot measure barring gay and lesbians couples from state-sanctioned wedlock. The ruling clears the way for same-sex marriages in California to resume. August 1, 2013 - Laws in Rhode Island and Minnesota to legalize same-sex marriage go into effect at midnight. August 29, 2013 - The US Treasury Department rules that legally married same-sex couples will be treated as married for tax purposes, even if they live in a state that does not recognize same-sex marriage. September 12, 2013 - A Commonwealth Court judge orders the Montgomery County, Pennsylvania Register of Wills, D. Bruce Hanes, to stop issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples. Since July, Hanes has issued licenses to 174 couples, despite a 1996 Pennsylvania law defining marriage as between a man and a woman. September 27, 2013 - A New Jersey state judge rules that same-sex couples must be permitted to marry in New Jersey starting October 21. The ruling says that the parallel label "civil unions," which the state already allows, is illegally preventing same-sex couples from getting federal benefits. October 10, 2013 - New Jersey Superior Court Judge Mary Jacobson denies the state's appeal to halt same-sex marriages. On October 21, gay and lesbian couple are legally allowed to marry. November 13, 2013 - Governor Neil Abercrombie signs legislation making Hawaii the 15th state to legalize same-sex marriage. The law takes effect on December 2, 2013. November 20, 2013 - Illinois becomes the 16th state to legalize same-sex marriage when Governor Pat Quinn signs the Religious Freedom and Marriage Fairness Act into law. The law will go into effect on June 1, 2014. November 27, 2013 - Pat Ewert and Venita Gray become the first same-sex couple to marry in Illinois. Gray's battle with cancer prompted the couple to seek relief from a federal court to immediately receive a license before the law goes into effect in June. Gray dies March 18, 2014. On February 21, 2014, an Illinois federal judge rules that other same-sex couples in Cook County can marry immediately. December 19, 2013 - The New Mexico Supreme Court unanimously rules to allow same-sex marriage statewide and orders county clerks to begin issuing marriage licenses to qualified same-sex couples. December 20, 2013 - A federal judge in Utah declares the state ban on same-sex marriage unconstitutional. December 24, 2013 - The 10th Circuit Court of Appeals denies a request from Utah officials to temporarily stay a lower court's ruling that allows same-sex marriage there. The ruling allows same-sex marriages to continue while the appeal goes forward. January 6, 2014 - The Supreme Court temporarily blocks same-sex marriage in Utah, sending the matter back to an appeals court. Days later, State officials in Utah announce that the more than 1,000 same-sex marriages performed in the three weeks prior will not be recognized. January 14, 2014 - An Oklahoma federal court rules the state ban on same-sex marriage is, "an arbitrary, irrational exclusion of just one class of Oklahoma citizens from a governmental benefit." Anticipating an appeal, US Senior District Judge Terence Kern puts in place a stay pending the outcome of the Utah appeal, so same-sex couples in Oklahoma cannot immediately marry. February 10, 2014 - Attorney General Eric Holder issues a memo stating, "the (Justice) department will consider a marriage valid for purposes of the marital privilege if an individual is or was validly married in a jurisdiction authorized to sanction marriages, regardless of whether the marriage is or would have been recognized in the state where the married individuals reside or formerly resided, or where the civil or criminal action has been brought." February 12, 2014 - US District Judge John G. Heyburn II rules that Kentucky's denial of recognition for valid same-sex marriages violates the United States Constitution's guarantee of equal protection under the law. February 13, 2014 - US District Judge Arenda L. Wright Allen strikes down Virginia's ban on same-sex marriage. February 26, 2014 - US District Judge Orlando Garcia strikes down Texas' ban on same-sex marriage, ruling it has no "rational relation to a legitimate government purpose." March 14, 2014 - A federal preliminary injunction is ordered against Tennessee's ban on recognizing same-sex marriages from other states. March 21, 2014 - US District Judge Bernard Friedman rules that the Michigan Marriage Amendment which bans same-sex marriage is unconstitutional. Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette files an emergency request for Judge Friedman's order to be stayed and appealed. April 14, 2014 - District Judge Timothy Black orders Ohio to recognize same-sex marriages from other states. May 9, 2014 - An Arkansas state judge declares the state's voter-approved same-sex marriage ban unconstitutional. May 13, 2014 - Magistrate Judge Candy Wagahoff Dale rules that the Idaho ban on gay marriage is unconstitutional and fails to live up to the 14th Amendment that guarantees no "state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." An appeal is filed. The following day, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals responds to the appeal and issues a temporary stay against same-sex marriage in Idaho. In October 2014, the Supreme Court lifts the stay. May 16, 2014 - The Arkansas Supreme Court issues an emergency stay as its judges consider an appeal to the state judge's ruling on same-sex marriage. May 19, 2014 - A federal judge strikes down Oregon's ban on same-sex marriage. May 20, 2014 - District Judge John E. Jones strikes down Pennsylvania's ban on same-sex marriage. June 6, 2014 - A Wisconsin federal judge strikes down the state's same-sex marriage ban. Within days, Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen files a petition with the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago to halt same-sex marriages in that state. June 13, 2014 - District Judge Barbara Crabb temporarily blocks same-sex marriages in Wisconsin, pending appeals. June 25, 2014 - An appeals court strikes down Utah's ban on same-sex marriage. June 25, 2014 - District Judge Richard Young strikes down Indiana's same-sex marriage ban. July 9, 2014 - A state judge in Colorado strikes down Colorado's ban on same-sex marriage. However, the judge prevents couples from immediately marrying by staying his decision. July 11, 2014 - A federal appeals court rules that about 1,300 same-sex marriages performed earlier this year must be recognized by Utah. July 18, 2014 - The Supreme Court grants Utah's request for a delay in recognizing same-sex marriages performed in late 2013 and early 2014. July 18, 2014 - The 10th Circuit Court of Appeals upholds a judge's ruling from January 2014 that the same-sex marriage ban in Oklahoma is unconstitutional. The panel stays the ruling, pending appeal from the state. July 23, 2014 - A federal judge rules that Colorado's ban on same-sex marriage is unconstitutional. The judge stays implementation of the ruling pending appeals. July 28, 2014 - A federal appeals court strikes down Virginia's ban on same-sex marriage. The 4th Circuit opinion also will affect marriage laws in other states within its jurisdiction, including West Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina. Separate orders will have to be issued for affected states in the region outside Virginia. August 20, 2014 - The Supreme Court grants a request to delay enforcement of an appeals court ruling that overturned Virginia's same-sex marriage ban. August 21, 2014 - District Judge Robert Hinkle rules Florida's same-sex marriage ban to be unconstitutional, but same-sex marriages cannot immediately be performed. September 3, 2014 - Judge Martin L. C. Feldman upholds Louisiana's ban on same-sex marriages, breaking a streak of 21 consecutive federal court decisions overturning the bans since June of 2013. October 6, 2014 - The US Supreme Court refuses to hear appeals from five states -- Indiana, Oklahoma, Utah, Virginia and Wisconsin -- seeking to keep their same-sex marriage bans in place. Therefore, same-sex marriage becomes legal in those states. October 7, 2014 - Same-sex marriage becomes legal in Colorado and Indiana. October 7, 2014 - The 9th Circuit US Court of Appeals in California concludes bans on same-sex marriage in Nevada and Idaho violate the equal protection rights of same-sex couples to legally marry. October 9, 2014 - Same-sex marriage becomes legal in Nevada and West Virginia. October 10, 2014 - Same-sex marriage becomes legal in North Carolina. October 17, 2014 - Judge John Sedwick rules that Arizona's ban on same-sex marriage is unconstitutional and refuses to stay his ruling. The same day, Attorney General Eric Holder announces that federal legal recognition of same-sex marriages extends to Indiana, Oklahoma, Utah, Virginia and Wisconsin. Also, the US Supreme Court rejects Alaska's request to delay enforcement of the court's ruling on same-sex marriage. Less than an hour later, a federal judge in Wyoming did the same in that Western state. November 4, 2014 - A federal judge rules that Kansas' ban on same-sex marriage is unconstitutional. He puts the ruling on hold until November 11, to give the state time to file an appeal. November 6, 2014 - The US Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit upholds bans on same-sex marriages in Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky and Tennessee. November 12, 2014 - A South Carolina federal judge strikes down the state's ban on same-sex marriage, delaying the effective date until November 20, allowing time for an appeal by the state's attorney general. November 19, 2014 - A federal judge overturns Montana's same-sex marriage ban. The order is effective immediately. December 15, 2014 - Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi asks the US Supreme Court to extend the stay on same-sex marriages that is set to expire in early January 2015. January 5, 2015 - The US Supreme Court denies Florida's petition to extend the stay on allowing same-sex marriages. Couples are free to marry as the case continues through the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals. January 12, 2015 - A federal judge rules South Dakota's ban on same-sex marriage unconstitutional but stays the ruling. January 23, 2015 - A federal court judge rules in favor of the freedom to marry in Alabama for same-sex couples but stays the ruling. January 27, 2015 - Federal Judge Callie Granade rules to strike down the same-sex marriage ban in a second case involving an unmarried same-sex couple in Alabama but stays her ruling for 14 days. February 8, 2015 - Alabama Supreme Court Chief Justice Roy Moore instructs probate judges not to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples. February 9, 2015 - Some Alabama probate judges, including in Montgomery County, begin issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples. Others follow the instructions of Moore. February 12, 2015 - US District Court Judge Granade instructs Probate Judge Don Davis, of Mobile County, Alabama, to issue same-sex marriage licenses. March 2, 2015 - US District Court Judge Joseph Bataillon strikes down Nebraska's same-sex marriage ban, effective March 9. The state immediately appeals the ruling, but Bataillon denies a stay. March 3, 2015 - The Alabama Supreme Court orders probate judges to discontinue issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples. The judges have five business days to respond to the order. March 5, 2015 - The 8th Circuit Court of Appeals issues a stay on Judge Batallion's ruling. The ban on same-sex marriage will remain in effect through the state's appeals process. April 28, 2015 - The US Supreme Court hears arguments in the case, Obergefell v. Hodges. The Courts ruling will decide whether states can constitutionally ban same-sex marriage. June 26, 2015 - The Supreme Court rules that same-sex couples can marry nationwide. In the 5-4 ruling, Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote for the majority with the four liberal justices. Each of the four conservative justices wrote their own dissent.  After years of fierce debate, Taiwan celebrates the first same-sex weddings in Asia Taipei, Taiwan (CNN)Beaming in the bright sunshine, Amber Wang took the hand of her new wife, Kristin Huang, on the steps of the Xinyi District office in Taipei, Friday, making history as one of the first same-sex couples to marry in Asia. As of 10am, 166 same-sex couples had already registered their marriages across Taiwan, according to the island's Interior Ministry. But just kilometers away, in the city's outer suburbs, emboldened opponents of marriage equality announced to the press that they would create a new political party to fight for a ban on same-sex marriage at the 2020 election. Taiwan is an island bitterly divided over a moment which should have made it a shining light for LGBTQ rights in an increasingly repressive region. Across the island of 24 million people, the first gay and lesbian couples in Asia legally tied the knot, to tears and applause from their friends and family. It followed two years of fierce debate after the island's Constitutional Court ruled that the existing marriage law was unconstitutional, violating LGBTQ citizens' human rights. The judges gave the island's parliament two years to amend and enact new laws. After months of stalling and acrimony, the laws finally passed on May 18, just one week before the deadline. Still, there's no indication that the majority of Taiwan's population is happy to see Wang and Huang and others like them married. A referendum during the 2018 Taiwan local elections asking voters if they supported same-sex marriage failed by a large margin. In total, 69% of voters said they wanted the marriage code restricted to between a man and a woman. "Friday will be the darkest day in Taiwan's judiciary history," same-sex marriage opponent Stability of Power Alliance chiarman Sun Chi-Cheng said the day before the historic event. Joy in Taiwan It is the day for which LGBT rights activist Chi Chia-Wei has been waiting for more than four decades. One of the first people in Taiwan to publicly come out as gay, Chi has been campaigning for marriage equality since the 1980s, and was one of the plaintiffs who brought the case in the Constitutional Court which led to its legalization. "I have been preparing for this day to come, although it took a long while to happen ... But I knew it would eventually come," he said. Chi was present at the wedding of Wang and Huang on Friday, dressed in a bright red suit with plush rainbow bears attached. He signed the first Xinyi same-sex couples' marriage registration as a witness, with the same pen Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen used to sign the marriage equality bill just one week ago. Tsai gifted it to Chi with a handwritten note."May love unite everyone on this land," the president wrote. Friday was technically Wang's third "wedding" to her wife, Huang. They were both married, unofficially, in January 2018, less than a year after the court decision and again in May shortly after the bill passed. But they only officially became wife and wife on Friday. "I'm so proud that Taiwan is on the right side of the history and the first in Asia to have done so ... Taiwan has set an example in making progress in safeguarding human rights," Huang said. The two, who have been dating for about three years, co-host a YouTube channel called BBDiary. It's named after their nicknames for each other -- BB, a synonym for baby. The video of their first "wedding" in 2018 has since been watched more than 420,000 times on their channel. Huang said she first realized the need for equal rights for same-sex relationships when Wang had a medical emergency and she found herself treated by hospital staff not as a loved one, but as a "roommate." They were standing in the rain last week with thousands of others when the final bills legalizing marriage equality passed, a moment which they both said was "unbelievable." Huang understands opponents of same-sex marriage. Her own father used to object to her being in a same-sex relationship. "(After they) got to know my partner better, they came to the realization that gay people aren't what they thought they were," she said. But not everyone has changed their minds. 'Darkest day' At Xizhi district in suburban Taipei, Sun announced the formation of the Stability of Power party which aims to end marriage equality at the very moment same-sex couples were tying the knot across the island. Speaking at the Taiwan legislature Thursday, he said the government's decision to pass same-sex marriage was a "betrayal" of voters, who made their opinion clear in last year's referendum. "Through President Tsai's manipulation, the people of Taiwan are not only betrayed, but also toyed with while their rights are being abused. In her eyes, people's opinion are nothing but trash," he said. It's clear the move to endorse same-sex marriage is divisive, to say the least. Three questions on same-sex marriage were asked in the 2018 Taiwan referendum. In all cases voters rejected same-sex marriage but weren't opposed to Taiwan's LGBTQ couples having rights other than marriage. But given the Constitutional Court's decision, legislators couldn't leave the law as it was, which led to extensive negotiations and concessions. The final version doesn't mention "same-sex marriage" specifically, instead saying couples of the same gender are allowed "marriage registration." It doesn't allow LGBTQ couples full adoption rights either. But Sun said that isn't enough and he wants the marriages outlawed. His group will put up candidates at the 2020 election to run on the issue. "Let's elect a new president and new legislators next year. And we will overturn the bills," he said. One of Sun's volunteers, Becky Huang, said gay people in Taiwan don't actually want to get married, blaming legislators for stoking the issue for personal gain. "I have a gay nephew. He doesn't want to get married," she said. 'Faith, hope and love' If Taiwan does backtrack on same-sex rights, it would be a decision in keeping with an increasingly conservative region. In recent years, LGBTQ rights across Asia have seen repeated backtracks and growing obstacles as local governments become more reluctant to embrace their gay populations. Activists had hoped the Taiwan decision would create a surge of support for same-sex marriage across Asia, but so far, only China has reacted to the announcement, apparently attempting to take credit for the advance in a tweet with a gif saying "love is love." Homosexuality is not illegal on the mainland, but same-sex marriage is not permitted and activists there don't see the situation changing any time soon. Taiwan's gay men and women may now be able to marry but say the battle for their rights isn't over. "We all know that, even though the bills have been passed, this won't be the end of the fight," newly-wed Huang said. Chi said he was optimistic about the future of same-sex marriage in Taiwan, despite Sun's attempts to rally opposition to the new laws. He believes that people will grow used to the change once they see that same-sex couples are just like everyone else. To his fellow same-sex marriage advocates across Asia, Chi has a simple message: "Faith, hope and love. Keep your faith, hold onto your hope and continue to love." The graphic in this story has been updated to correct the legal status of same-sex marriage in Jamaica.  For China's LGBTQ people, Taiwan's rainbow victory is a moment of joy and pain Taipei, Taiwan (CNN)When Chinese gay rights activist Peng Yanhui heard that Taiwan had approved a bill legalizing same-sex marriage on May 17 as he boarded a flight, he burst into tears of joy. "I was crying so hard on the plane that flight attendants wanted to find out what had happened," said the director of the China Rainbow Media Awards, an LGBTQ rights advocacy group. Peng wasn't alone. The ruling provoked strong emotion among China's LGBTQ community. On Friday, as the first same-sex weddings take place in Taiwan, that group -- some of whom are just 100 kilometers away in mainland China -- will be watching with mixed feelings. In one way, the moment could be a turning point for the whole of Asia, where countries such as Indonesia and Malaysia have recently become more conservative towards LGBTQ rights. Taiwan is the first place in the region which is home to about 60% of the world's population to legalize same-sex marriage. That decision holds special significance for China's LGBTQ community given the cultural and historical connections between Taiwan and the mainland. Originally one population, the two sides have been separated since the end of a bloody civil war in 1949, but still share a language and many traditions. Activists say the ruling proves that same-sex marriage is not incompatible with Chinese culture. "We know it's marriage equality in Taiwan, not in mainland China, but we still feel so happy," said Peng. "For us, the right to marry isn't just a political argument but (it's about) our everyday life -- we want to see our relationships recognized." But the moment is also bittersweet for the LGBTQ community in China, where same-sex marriage is still illegal -- a situation that shows no sign of changing. A bright spot While Chinese citizens might celebrate Taiwan's legalization of same-sex marriage, they won't be able to take advantage of it. The law says that citizens of governments without marriage equality won't be allowed to get legally married in Taiwan. Cecilia Yang, who is from Wuhan in Central China, wants to marry her Taiwanese partner but without same-sex marriage on the mainland, that won't be possible. "When my partner told me the news, she was so excited. Then we looked at each other and had more mixed feelings," she said. Homosexuality is not illegal in China and, in 2001, the authorities removed it from the official list of mental disorders. But LGBTQ people in China still face persistent discrimination and prejudices from both the government and public -- let alone enjoying rights, such as the ability to jointly adopt children, inherit property and marry their partners. In 2016, Chinese censors even banned the portrayal of "abnormal sexual behavior" in TV and online shows, including gay and lesbian relationships. Not only that, but the space for LGBTQ activism has shrunk in recent years. Since he came to power in late 2012, Chinese President Xi Jinping has increasingly stressed the ruling Communist Party's absolute control over all aspects of society, resulting in a push for more rigid moral codes. In a landscape where freedom of speech and protests against the government are rarely tolerated, Human Rights Watch China researcher Maya Wang said LGBTQ activism had been a "relatively bright spot" in Chinese civil society. China's young people have been increasingly supporting of same-sex relationships, Wang added, with some draping themselves in the rainbow flag at their graduations or supporting inclusion on university campuses. She warned, however, that harassment and restrictions on their activities had increased in recent years. LGBT-themed books have been restricted in the country's libraries. Last November, an author of same-sex erotic fiction was sent to jail for ten years. Wang said the fickle Chinese government could implement a crackdown on LGBT rights supporters at a moment's notice. "You have to be very careful being an activist in China," she said. A message to the world The Chinese leadership has never shown any indication of support for LGBTQ rights, but a strange thing happened on Sunday after the Taiwanese legislation passed. It tried to take credit for it. "Local lawmakers in Taiwan, China, have legalized same-sex marriage in a first for Asia," tweeted the Communist Party's official newspaper, People's Daily, on Friday, along with a rainbow color-infused animated image that said "love is love" underneath. The post was disingenuous given the fact that Taiwan and China have been governed separately for seven decades, although Beijing considers Taiwan a renegade province and part of its territory.  The tweet provoked fury in Taiwan's government, but it wasn't the only LGBTQ-friendly opinion published in English by Chinese state media. Global Times, a state-run tabloid known for its nationalistic rhetoric, posted a video Saturday showcasing and praising gay social life in Beijing. It isn't clear if this celebration of Taiwan's decision in Chinese state media represented real momentum in a change in Beijing's position or if it was just cynical opportunism. Wang said she was skeptical. "The Chinese government is often quite adaptive to making use of popular incidents and transforming it into issues that bolster their power," she said. In the unlikely scenario that the Chinese government did embrace homosexuality, it wouldn't be unprecedented, according to Steve Tsang, director of the China Institute at the University of London. "If you go back in history, there were times when same-sex relationships were widely practiced and accepted in China," he said. "After the collapse of the Han Dynasty, and before reunification under the Shu Dynasty, you have several hundred years when it was widely accepted." You can't erase them It isn't just China that is playing politics on this issue. Tsang said the ruling could boost Taiwan's reputation internationally among Western nations. For decades, Taipei has been losing an international battle as Beijing forces diplomatic allies to choose between Taiwan and China, leaving the island relatively isolated. Lagging Beijing in economic and political power, Taipei is only formally recognized by 17 countries. The landmark LGBTQ ruling might not be enough to turn that diplomatic tide, Tsang said, it will burnish Taiwan's reputation as a liberal bastion in Asia. There was even hope before the same-sex marriage law was passed in Taiwan that such a move could spark a wave of support for LGBTQ rights across the region -- including in China. But Yang, the Wuhan native, said she didn't believe marriage equality in Taiwan would inspire support for same-sex marriage inside the Chinese government. "We have a very different political environment here. It's going to be very difficult to achieve it -- my partner and I don't feel very hopeful," she said. For LGBTQ rights activist Peng, a better future is still on the horizon for his cause in China. "I'm seeing more and more gay Chinese come out of the closet and live the lives they want," he said. "You can't erase all these living, breathing human beings no matter how much Chinese civil society is being squeezed. We just need more time." The graphic in this story has been updated to correct the legal status of same-sex marriage in Jamaica.  Hong Kongers wanted for rioting granted refugee status in Germany Hong Kong (CNN)Two Hong Kong residents wanted for rioting have been granted refugee status in Germany, in a major blow to the city's international reputation as fears grow of shrinking political freedoms in the semi-autonomous Chinese zone. A spokesman for the German immigration authorities confirmed that two applicants from Hong Kong "received refugee protection in Germany" last year. The New York Times identified them as Ray Wong and Alan Li, two advocates of Hong Kong independence who fled the city facing rioting charges after violent clashes between protesters and police in 2016. Last year, Edward Leung, another independence activist previously barred from standing for office in Hong Kong, was jailed for six years for his part in the riot in the Mongkok district. Responding to a question about Wong and Li, Hong Kong police said they would not "make any comment on this case as legal proceedings are in progress." "In general, the police will, according to the circumstances of the case, track down the whereabouts of the suspects and arrest them by all possible means," a police spokesman said. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang would not comment on the case in question, but said that issues in Hong Kong "are also China's internal affairs." "Other countries don't have the right, nor should they interfere, in such affairs, no matter what made-up excuses they use," he said. Wong told the Times that "if the German government thinks that the Hong Kong judiciary is independent, they would not grant me refugee status. It's because they think that Hong Kong uses the judiciary to persecute Hong Kong people." The news comes amid a furious debate in Hong Kong's legislature over a proposed extradition bill which activists fear could be used to send dissidents and critics of Beijing to mainland China. Lawmakers came to blows earlier this month, as the government tried to push the bill through the semi-democratic legislature. Hong Kong officials argue the extradition law is necessary to close loopholes in current legislation that make it difficult to transfer suspects to countries and territories with which the city does not have an extradition treaty. In particular, they have pointed to the case of a man wanted for murder in Taiwan who cannot be extradited under the current law. However, Taipei has since stated that it will not seek his return to the island if the proposed legal change puts Taiwanese in Hong Kong at risk of being extradited to China. Multiple international and local bodies have weighed in against the bill, saying it risks undermining Hong Kong's freedoms and rule of law. Critics point to previous incidents in which critics of Beijing have been snatched in the city and taken across the border, and to the widespread use of politically-motivated prosecutions in China. On Tuesday, Beijing's top official responsible for Hong Kong affairs, Vice Premier Han Zheng, spoke out in support of the extradition bill. He said the central government "completely supports the work launched by the Hong Kong government, and strongly believes that through the hard work of the government and the rational debate held by different sectors, doubts will surely be cleared and a consensus reached." Fled to Germany Wong and Li jumped bail in 2017 and traveled to Germany, where they applied for asylum, according to the Times. Under German law, refugee status can be granted where applicants are able to demonstrate a "well-founded fear of being persecuted" on the basis of race, nationality, political opinion, religion or membership of a particular social group. Examples of persecution include "legal, administrative, police and/or judicial measures which as such are discriminatory, or are applied in a discriminatory manner (and) disproportionate or discriminatory prosecution or punishment." Under the "one country, two systems" principle adopted when Hong Kong was handed over from British to Chinese rule in 1997, the city became a special administrative region of China but retained its legal and political systems, including freedoms of speech and assembly not enjoyed in mainland China. While it is unclear under what grounds Wong and Li received asylum, independence activists have faced increasing political pressure in Hong Kong since 2016. Last year, the government banned a separatist party for the first time, reiterating its "zero tolerance on 'Hong Kong independence'." Proponents of Hong Kong independence and of greater legal autonomy from Chinese rule have been barred from standing for election, and disqualified from the city's legislature.  Inflatable 'Tank Man' appears in Taiwan ahead of Tiananmen Square crackdown anniversary An inflatable artwork depicting the infamous "Tank Man" incident has appeared in the heart of Taiwan's capital, Taipei, nearly two weeks before the 30th anniversary of the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown in Beijing. Recreating a widely-known image from China's ill-fated 1989 pro-democracy protests, the provocative sculpture has been installed outside the Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall, one of Taiwan's most visited tourist attractions. The sculpture is reportedly the work of Taiwanese multimedia artist Shake, whose previous projects have explored history, identity and geopolitics. Her balloon artwork recreates the moment when an unidentified man stood before a row of tanks in a Beijing street following a military crackdown. Estimates of the death toll from the crackdown range from several hundred to thousands. An official death toll has never been released. Outside China, "Tank Man" has become one of the 20th century's most iconic images. After the initial standoff, famously captured by American photographer Jeff Widener from the balcony of a nearby hotel, the unknown man was filmed climbing up to the tank's turret and speaking to a soldier inside, before dismounting. The image Widener shot for the Associated Press soon spread around the world, and is now the most recognized symbol of the bloody crackdown. It was taken the day after the so-called "June Fourth Incident," in which China's military cleared Tiananmen Square of protesters who had gathered to call for democratic reforms. The incident remains a sensitive topic in China, and the "Tank Man" image -- along with recreations and parodies of it -- are regularly subjected to online and media censorship. Taipei's Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall, named after the defeated leader who fled to the island after the Communist revolution in 1949, is considered one of the city's top tourist sites, attracting, invariably, visitors from the mainland. According to statistics from Taiwan's Tourism Bureau, almost 2.7 million visitors arrived on the island from China in 2018. The monument's grounds have become a popular site for public art. Earlier this year, American artist KAWS installed a 36-meter-long (118 feet) inflatable of one of his signature characters, Companion, at the spot. CNN has reached out to Shake and Taiwan's Ministry of Culture for comment. As churches are demolished at home, Chinese Christians find religious freedom in Kenya Nairobi, Kenya (CNN)Every Sunday morning in an affluent suburb of Nairobi, Kenya, the soaring song of Chinese hymns fills the empty corridors of a Monday-to-Friday office block. Inside a small makeshift chapel, a kaleidoscopic congregation of Chinese migrants gather to pray. Among them are underwear importers, health workers and operators of the controversial new $3.8 billion Chinese-built railway that slices through Kenya, the country's biggest infrastructure project since independence -- and a sign of China's growing investment and footprint on the continent. Some have married Kenyans, others have Chinese children who speak Swahili as well as they do Mandarin. But they all share two things. Each person here has re-rooted their life from Communist China to Kenya, a leading African economy where 80% of the nearly 50 million people are Christian. And they have all decided to openly embrace God. Their religious awakening comes at a perilous moment for Christians in China, as the Communist Party government bans online sales of bibles, dynamites churches and arrests Christians for "inciting subversion of state power." The Communist Party sees any large group outside its dominion as a threat. "Publicly, it's dangerous to be a Christian in China right now," says Jonathon Chow, 43, a senior pastor at the Bread of Life Church, which is headquartered in Taiwan but has 500 ministries, including many in West Africa. Previously, the organization's churches in Africa tended to be run and attended by Africans, he says. But increasingly Bread of Life is seeing Chinese-led congregations forming across the continent, as more Chinese move to Africa and interact with local values. The Golden Lampstand Church, in China, was demolished with dynamite and heavy machinery in January 2018. Throughout the service, a middle-aged couple from Shandong province, who say they are new to Kenya and the ministry, post audio clips of hymns and photographs of readings onto WeChat, a social network closely monitored by the Chinese government. "Most of the congregation here got saved in Kenya," says Chow. "Unless they were a believer before they came, most don't know a lot about the Christian conditions in China." 'The Kenyan wedding everyone is talking about' The first time Liang Yongyu met Karen Ngunjiri at the billboard advertising company where they both worked in Nairobi, he told her she would be his wife. The pair dated for 6 months, then hit a roadblock that threatened to scupper his swaggering prediction. Liang, 33, was not a Christian. "That was a deal breaker for me," says Ngunjiri, 29, who spent four years studying Mandarin in Nanning, south-west China. "Him being Chinese? Not a problem. But him not being a Christian, I thought that was going to be a big issue. How would we bring up our children?" Liang had lived in Kenya for a "long time," could speak some Swahili and had been "hearing a lot about Christianity" from his Kenyan friends, Ngunjiri says. After some soul searching, he said he "was open to exploring what Christianity had to offer," she adds. Liang connected with a church in Nairobi that held services in Cantonese -- the language spoken in his home province of Guangdong, in southern China, and Hong Kong, where the pastors who founded the ministry were from. In December 2018, those Hong Kong pastors married the couple in a Christian ceremony in the shadow of Mount Kenya in front of 200 guests -- "a small wedding for Kenya," jokes Ngunjiri. Weeks later, a video of their wedding went viral on YouTube with the title: "THE KENYAN WEDDING EVERYONE IS TALKING ABOUT." Ngunjiri still doesn't know who uploaded it, but for months the newlyweds couldn't walk down the street in Nairobi without being recognized. The novelty of a Kenyan woman marrying a Chinese man had got people's attention. "Some of the comments (online) were horrible," she says, of the video that has since been taken down, but at its peak had nearly 300,000 views, according to Ngunjiri. "Especially from Kenyans. There's this idea that the Chinese are here to steal our jobs or colonize us. So the joke was now they're stealing our women." In 2017, China was Kenya's largest trading partner and, in 2014, the country was home to an estimated 40,000 Chinese migrants. But their relations with Kenyans have, at times, been tense. In 2015, a Chinese restaurateur reportedly banned African patrons after 5 p.m., last year a Chinese boss was deported from Kenya after being caught on video calling an employee a "monkey," and local media has claimed that Kenyan workers on the Chinese-built railway have been treated like second-class citizens by their foreign employers. Kenyans are also concerned about how much debt their country owes to China. Last year, in a seeming show of strength against Chinese dominance President Kenyatta Uhuru banned imports of cheap Chinese fish, amid claims it was squeezing out local produce. But his ban was soon reversed: Kenya does not produce enough fish to feed itself. Kenyan workers on the Standard Gauge Railway; Chinese supervisors on the platform in Nairobi; Kenyan staff man the modern terminal. The anti-Chinese commentators on Ngunjiri's wedding video, however, had perhaps missed the point. Rather than Ngunjiri being overpowered by Chinese culture, it was Liang who had changed his faith and agreed to a Christian African wedding with just 20 Chinese guests who didn't include his mother, embracing a new culture 5,300 miles from home. A new door opens An estimated 1 million Chinese have moved to the African continent in the 21st century, according to journalist Howard French's book "China's Second Continent," amid growing trade ties between the two regions. But what is perhaps unique about Kenya's Chinese population, and why it is embracing the country's religious culture, is its diversity. A 2015 study found the Chinese in Kenya are spread "across every sector in a significant way." This makes a difference. Employees of government-owned giants, shipped out to build roads in Uganda or airports in Zimbabwe, for example, are typically bused to and from work and must stay inside their compounds in the evenings and at weekends unless given approval to leave by a manager. But in Nairobi -- a vibrant city home to African tech giant M-Pesa, which revolutionized mobile banking in East Africa -- a younger generation of Chinese are working in the private sector, freer to explore new cultures and belief systems through their personal connections with local people. Annie Hu, 30, began attending church in Kenya; Chinese and Kenyan employees mix at a media company office; the China Center where many Chinese expats have businesses. Among them is Annie Hu, 30, who relocated to Kenya five years ago and works for a Chinese financial technology, or fintech, giant. She says the 9-to-5 "pole pole" (meaning "slowly slowly" in Swahili) lifestyle here is more attractive than the 9-9-6 grind -- working 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., six days a week -- at some of China's biggest technology companies in the country's Silicon Valley city of Shenzhen, where she relocated from. "Living in a developing country and international city you encounter different nationalities, races and lifestyles," Hu says. After frequently traveling for work to the Muslim majority city of Dar es Salaam, in Tanzania, she went to Lebanon and Jordan last year to learn more about Muslim culture. "It opened a totally new door for me," she says. Asked how she felt about China's treatment of Muslims, Hu replies: "We need more understanding." Hu's family is Buddhist but in Nairobi she has attended Christian churches, including one led by Hong Kong pastors, as well as a Maasai church. "Kenyans believe in God more than my Western friends," she says. "Once we engage with the local community it's inevitable we are invited to join the church. These people are very friendly and reliable and they try to build a supportive community for the Chines e." Chow from Bread of Life agrees the church is an important social network for newcomers. "I also think the cultural differences and the hardship the Chinese experience here means they are more open to the gospel," he says. For Hu, flirting with various Christian communities hasn't resulted in a full conversion. "It's brought more different religions into my life ... But I didn't reach a point where I felt I want to become a serious Christian yet. Not yet," she adds. The world's biggest Christian nation? It is not only the Chinese in Kenya who are embracing Christianity. Many Chinese students in America, Australia and the UK are returning home Christian, says Ian Johnson, author of "The Souls of China: The Return of Religion After Mao." Their conversion chimes with a broader trend at home: China itself is on track to be the world's biggest Christian nation by 2030, by some estimates. For much of the 20th century, Chinese citizens were taught to worship the founding father of the Communist Party, Mao Zedong, the revolutionary leader who destroyed much of the nation's Buddhist and Taoist religious infrastructure during the Cultural Revolution. "There used to be 900 temples in Beijing alone," says Johnson. "Now there are 20." Mao's death in 1976 left the Chinese searching for a new value system. Christianity seemed fresh and modern to the country's newly urban residents, Johnson says, although more people in China are still Buddhist. By 2017, there were between 93 million and 115 million Christians in China -- around 5% of the country's population -- but fewer than 30 million practice in official churches, according to Purdue University scholar Yang Fenggang. If those estimates pan out, there would now be almost as many Christians in China as there are members of the Communist Party, which had an estimated 90 million members in 2016. That has riled the government. Under President Xi Jinping rhetoric has grown on the need to "Sinicize" religions perceived to be Western, despite the fact many Christians in China do not feel "un-Chinese or foreign," says Johnson. Today, only state-sanctioned Christian organizations are legal in China. Overcrowded state churches run as many as 5 services a day and their pastors' wages are paid by the government, says Johnson. The alternatives are so-called house churches which operate illegally but can offer a more personal ministry, with pastors on first-name terms with their congregation.  For years, such churches were tolerated in China but recently they have become a target of the authorities and their requests to register with the state are often rejected. In December 2018, one of China's best-known underground ministries, the Early Rain Covenant Church, in Chengdu, was raided. The pastor and his wife were charged with "inciting subversion," which can carry a 15-year prison sentence, and more than 100 worshipers were arrested. An underground church in Kenya Kenya is not a place you'd expect to find an underground church. Christianity is the lifeblood of the nation's politics and societal fabric, and is celebrated in huge, rambunctious services attended by thousands of dancing and singing worshipers. But, in the northern stretches of the sprawling, traffic-choked capital of 4 million people, an underground Chinese house church is exactly what May Li, wife of a Malaysian-Chinese pastor, helps to lead -- illustrating just how far the Communist Party's religious crackdown has traveled. Li and other Chinese Christians in this story did not want to use their real names for fear of being punished by the government when they return to China. The Chinese embassy in Nairobi has already reached out to the leaders of some Chinese Christian groups in the city and asked them to desist, says Li. Her service tries to stay below the radar. It's notable that the three main Christian churches in Nairobi are run by Chinese pastors from Taiwan, Hong Kong and Malaysia -- places outside mainland China where Chinese people enjoy more Christian religious freedom. A spokesperson for China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Mofa) in Beijing said it was "not aware" of this situation, adding that China does not have "so-called house churches." "The Chinese government respects its people's religious freedom and protects normal religious activities and legitimate rights of religious organizations, and manages religious issues pertaining to national and public interests in accordance with law," the spokesperson said via fax. "At the same time, we require all religions to obey national laws and carry out activities within the law." On Sunday afternoons, Li's underground church meets in a small basement room of a huge Kenyan church. No photography is allowed. No names of attendees can be revealed. No Chinese person here wants to be outed as a Christian. "These people will one day go back to China," says Li, explaining that this congregation is a transient group often working in Kenya for short stints. Most were Christian before they came and, if they belonged to a house church, are aware of some of the risks. Church translator Grace Zhang, from Hubei province, falls into that category. "Things are very difficult for my church in China right now," says Zhang, who did not want her real name used. She became a Christian with her mother in 2002 and relocated to Kenya to proselytize to Chinese abroad, as well as to Kenyans. Despite her work, Zhang hesitates to call herself a missionary -- "that's a sensitive word," she says. Chinese law bans missionary work in China. Instead, Zhang prefers the term "cultural mediator." Many Africans from Uganda, Burundi, Kenya and Sudan also attend the bilingual service, which is delivered in English and Mandarin, hoping to improve their language skills or learn more about China. "God gave them the burden of loving the Chinese," Zhang says. Through their interaction at the church, Zhang helps Africans and Chinese better understand each other. She explains to the Chinese, for example, that Kenyans place a high value on in-depth greetings, meaning that asking about the well-being of multiple family members is a cultural necessity. She warns Africans that many Chinese do not respond well to overly physical greetings. "We try to learn from both sides," she says. China vs God ... going home In Chinese state media, the clampdown on faith goes largely unreported and Christianity is "virtually invisible," says Johnson -- the government doesn't want to "encourage anyone to think about religion." That explains why worshipers at the Bread of Life church in Nairobi are open about sharing their Christianity. This is a more settled congregation. Having found religion abroad and been out of China for several years, in most cases, they often simply do not know the extent of their government's crackdown, says Chow -- although many have a sense the government is not enthusiastic about religion. When members want to repatriate, however, they have to be enlightened of the potential risks. Maggie Wong, 35, a pastor at Bread of Life, says the church tries to prepare them for what they will face and has a network of underground churches to connect them with. "It's very stressful," she says. "From a spiritual perspective, I think it's not easy for returnees to survive when they go back to their home country if they live overseas," says Zhang, from the underground church. "When they go back we keep in touch with them and even Skype for bible study." Some Christians in Kenya, however, who learn of the potential dangers that await them in China say it could be a deterrent from returning. Jimmy Hong Zhen Wu, 53, a trader from Guangdong province, became Christian during the decade he has spent living in Kenya, where his wife has given birth to two daughters now under 8 years old. He travels to China regularly for work and says he is conscious of the double life he would need to lead back home. "In public, in China we can't speak about our faith," says Wu, who did not want his real name used. "Only with friends and family can we say we are Christian." Whether his daughters, who have spent their lives in a proudly Christian society attending church every Sunday, will understand those confines if their family one day heads back to China remains to be seen. Editor's Note: This story has been updated to clarify remarks by Annie Hu in her interview with Jenni Marsh on April 1, 2019.  Taiwan furious after China attempts to take credit for LGBT marriage win Beijing (CNN)Taiwan has lashed out at China's state media for attempting to take credit for the island's historic decision to legalize same-sex marriage. On Friday, Taiwan's legislators passed a bill making same-sex marriage a reality, the first place in Asia to give LGBT couples many of the same rights as their heterosexual peers. LGBT activists were overjoyed at the news, but some of the most unlikely praise came from the Chinese Communist Party's mouthpiece. "Local lawmakers in Taiwan, China, have legalized same-sex marriage in a first for Asia," tweeted the People's Daily newspaper on Friday, along with a rainbow color-infused animated image that says "love is love" underneath. "Wrong!" Joseph Wu, Taiwan's foreign minister, shot back on his department's official Twitter account Sunday. "The bill was passed by our national parliament and will be signed by the president soon. Democratic Taiwan is a country in itself and has nothing to do with authoritarian China." "(People's Daily) is a commie brainwasher and it sucks." Taiwan and China are separated by fewer than 130 kilometers (81 miles) at their closest point. For seven decades, the two have maintained an uneasy truce following their split at the end of a bloody civil war in 1949. Unification is a long-term aim for China's ruling Communist Party, which regards self-governed Taiwan -- an island of 23 million people -- as a renegade province. The historic vote in Taiwan came almost two years after the island's Constitutional Court ruled existing laws -- which defined marriage as between a man and a woman -- to be unconstitutional. Despite sharply divided public opinions, Taiwan's legislators passed the law only a week before a court-set deadline to enact marriage equality laws. It will go into effect on May 24. As thousands of people in Taipei took to the streets to celebrate the outcome, Beijing's propaganda authorities appeared to see an opportunity to stake a claim on China's sovereignty over Taiwan and to highlight China's supposed LGBT-friendliness. The news from Taiwan was among trending topics Friday on Weibo, China's equivalent of Twitter. It has remained a widely discussed story, generating largely positive comments, despite the Chinese government's growing censorship on all LGBT-related subjects on social media. Global Times, a state-run tabloid known for its nationalistic rhetoric, posted a video Saturday showcasing gay social life in Beijing. The three-minute clip features interviews with local advocates as well as foreigners praising the Chinese capital's inclusive culture, complete with footage of drag queen performances. Homosexuality is not illegal in China and the authorities in 2001 removed it from the official list of mental disorders. But activists and experts agree that prejudices and discrimination persist, as well as periodic government crackdowns. Since he came to power in late 2012, Chinese President Xi Jinping has increasingly stressed the Communist Party's absolute control over all aspects of society, resulting in a push for more rigid moral codes and even less room for LGBT visibility and advocacy. In March, nearly all LGBT content was scrubbed from "Bohemian Rhapsody," the award-winning biopic of British rock band Queen, for the Chinese audience. Deleted scenes range from two men kissing to the word "gay." Last November, an author of same-sex erotic fiction was sent to jail for ten years. In 2016, Chinese censors banned the portrayal of "abnormal sexual behavior" in TV and online shows, including gay and lesbian relationships. Still, some Chinese activists want to focus on the positive impact of Taiwan's legalization of same-sex marriage may have on the mainland. "It offers us a lot of hope," Xiaogang Wei, a leading LGBT rights activist who heads the Beijing Gender Health Education Institute, told CNN on Friday. "The Chinese government has pointed to cultural tradition as a reason for same-sex marriage being unsuitable in China. But the decision in Taiwan, which shares a cultural tradition with us, proves that Chinese culture can be open, diverse and progressive."  Quickly catch up on the day's news (CNN)Here's what you might have missed Friday on CNN: -- Another state jumped on the anti-abortion bandwagon. Missouri passed a bill banning abortions after eight weeks of pregnancy. -- Taiwan became the first place in Asia to legalize same-sex marriage. -- In the middle of his trade war with China, US President Donald Trump lifted steel and aluminum tariffs on Canada and Mexico. -- Ohio State University released a damning report. It found that university staff knew since the 1970s that a school doctor was sexually abusing students, but they didn't investigate. -- A court ruled that the ex-king of Belgium will be fined more than $5,000 each day until he takes a paternity test. Here's the story. -- Grumpy Cat, a beloved hero of the internet, died at age 7. -- What could be better than Batman? Batwoman. Especially when she's being played by Ruby Rose. The "Orange Is the New Black" actress appeared in the first trailer for the upcoming series. -- A pretty name for a special view. Catch the rare "blue flower moon" Saturday night.  Luckin Coffee surges in Wall Street debut New York (CNN Business)China's Starbucks has arrived on Wall Street. Luckin Coffee begin trading on Friday and provided an immediate caffeine jolt to the market. The stock surged nearly 50% to $25 a share before pulling back. Shares closed up about 20%. Luckin Coffee, which is growing rapidly thanks to a focus on cheaper drinks, priced its initial public offering on the Nasdaq at $17 a share. That was at the high end of its range and it values Luckin Coffee (LK) at more than $4 billion. Luckin raised more than $570 million from the stock sale. Luckin Coffee has quickly taken China by storm. The company, which was founded in October 2017, already has nearly 2,400 stores in 28 cities. That makes it second only to Starbucks (SBUX) in China. But Luckin Coffee is likely to soon pass its larger rival. Luckin Coffee has plans to open 2,000 additional stores in the country by the end of the year, bringing its total to about 4,500 locations. It's an ambitious goal, especially since Chinese consumers aren't addicted to coffee as much as drinkers in the United States and other nations are. Tea is the beverage of choice. Taking China by storm with cheaper coffee Luckin Coffee cited data from consumer research firm Frost & Sullivan in its IPO filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that showed Chinese consumers drank only six cups of coffee a year in 2018, compared to 279 for Japan, 388 in the US and a whopping 867 in Germany. But Luckin Coffee is hoping that the popularity of Starbucks in China, coupled with Luckin Coffee's plans to offer less expensive brews, will quickly create more coffee drinkers in mainland China. After all, Frost & Sullivan said that consumers in nearby Taiwan and Hong Kong each drink more than 200 cups of coffee a year. Still, Luckin Coffee is tiny compared to Starbucks, which plans to expand even further in China as the US market matures. And like many other startup firms that have recently gone public — including Lyft (LYFT), Uber (UBER), Pinterest (PINS) and Beyond Meat (BYND) — Luckin Coffee is bleeding red ink. The company reported a net loss of $241.3 million last year on sales of just $125.3 million. Luckin Coffee lost another $82.2 million in the first quarter of 2019 on revenue of only $71.3 million. Luckin will lose money to gain market share Luckin Coffee says this trend will continue, as it plans more store openings and increased marketing while also keeping its coffee prices more affordable in order to steal customers from Starbucks. "We intend to further increase our brand awareness, expand our customer base and store network, and expect to continue to invest heavily in offering discounts and deals," the company said in its SEC filing. Luckin Coffee chief financial officer Reinout Schakel reiterated this in an interview with CNN's Julia Chatterley on Friday. He said the company wants to "help people save money." Schakel added that the company is investing a lot on technology and is confident that these investments will help keep costs down for the long-term. He said the goal is to offer "high quality coffee for a much more affordable price and still become profitable." "The market is in its infancy. I think there's a huge opportunity" Schakel said, adding that coffee in China is now viewed as more of a luxury product and that Luckin Coffee wants to make it "a part of everyday life." Chinese consumers love the coupons He also brushed off concerns about the trade war with the United States, saying that because the company already does a good job of keeping costs low and is selling its coffee at a discount to Starbucks, there should be little impact on its sales and customer base. To that end, Chinese consumers in Beijing told CNN that price is one of Luckin Coffee's biggest selling points. "It has great value. A Starbucks coffee usually costs around 40 yuan (nearly $6 USD). Here we use coupons a lot. It's usually around 20 with discounts. So value is the first consideration," said Terasa Wang, a sales manager. Shilu Wang, a director and producer, added that she was first attracted to Luckin Coffee "because it gave me lots of coupons, like the first free orders. No other coffee brand does that." She added that "the taste is good for the price" and that delivery was fast. So it looks like Starbucks is going to have a tough battle with Luckin Coffee for the foreseeable future. -- CNN's Serenitie Wang contributed to this report.  Taiwan legalizes same-sex marriage in historic first for Asia (CNN)Lawmakers in Taiwan have approved a bill legalizing same-sex marriage, a landmark decision that makes the self-ruled island the first place in Asia to pass gay marriage legislation. The vote came almost two years after the island's Constitutional Court ruled that the existing law -- which said marriage was between a man and a woman -- was unconstitutional. The panel of judges gave the island's parliament two years to amend or enact new laws. On Friday -- only a week off the two-year deadline -- lawmakers in Taiwan's Legislative Yuan passed a bill making same-sex marriage a reality. It will go into effect on May 24. Although the island has a large gay community and its annual gay pride parade is the biggest in Asia, the issue of marriage equality has bitterly divided Taiwanese society. In a controversial referendum in November last year, 67% voted to reject same-sex marriage. In recent months conservative groups have campaigned against same-sex marriage reform, pushing for a law that would see gay marriages redefined as something closer to same-sex unions. Tens of thousands of people braved pouring rain Friday to demonstrate in favor of same-sex marriage outside the parliament, as lawmakers began voting on three draft bills, one tabled by the island's Cabinet -- which would ultimately prove successful -- and two watered-down rival bills tabled by conservative groups. The successful Cabinet bill was the only one to use the word "marriage." It was backed by LGBTQ groups, despite the fact it could see same-sex couples denied rights enjoyed by hetrosexual couples, such as adoption and cross-national marriage. Wu Tzu-an, a 33-year-old gay artist from Taipei, was among the crowds outside the parliament celebrating Friday. "Today the result was the best we got for this stage," said Wu. "It's also a sign to show that Taiwan was different from China," he added, referring to mainland China where same-sex marriage has not been legalized. "Personally I don't have plans to get married, but I think it's a sign for equality." Xiaogang Wei, who heads the Beijing Gender Health Education Institute, called the bill's passing a historic moment, not only for Asia but for the global LGBTQ rights movement. "It will have a very positive impact on China's LGBT community, offering us a lot of hope," he told CNN. "The Chinese government has pointed to cultural tradition as a reason for same-sex marriage being unsuitable in China. But the decision in Taiwan, which shares a cultural tradition with us, proves that Chinese culture can be open, diverse and progressive." After the vote, Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen tweeted: "We took a big step towards true equality, and made Taiwan a better country." Longtime struggle Friday's decision has been a long time in the making. In 2015, veteran gay rights activist Chi Chia-wei -- who has spent 30 years fighting for marriage equality -- filed a request to the Constitutional Court asking for a ruling on an article in the island's civil code stating that marriage is between a man and a woman. The Taipei city government filed a similar request the same year after three same-sex couples lodged an administrative lawsuit against the government when their marriage registrations were rejected, CNA reported. In 2017, the court ruled the law violated the constitution. Lawmakers were given a two-year deadline, but reached a deadlock. Taiwan's gay marriage opponents seized the opportunity to put forward a referendum asking voters whether they agreed with same-sex marriage. Taiwan Alliance to Promote Civil Partnership Rights executive director Victoria Hsu, who represented Chi during his case, said she expected attitudes towards LGBTQ people to improve after the bill as they would see that heterosexual families "wouldn't lose anything." But Hsu -- who plans to register her marriage with her partner of six years when the bill takes effect next Friday -- said more still needed to be done to make LGBTQ people truly equal. "The fight is not over, but we will continue from this brand-new start," she added. Amnesty International Taiwan's acting director Annie Huang agreed, saying: "The Taiwanese government must not stop here. It needs to act to eliminate all forms of discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identities and intersex status." LGBTQ rights in Asia Taiwan's vote sets it apart from other parts of Asia where LGBTQ rights have regressed. In mainland China, where homosexuality is legal but prejudices and discrimination against LGBT people persist under Communist Party rule, an author of same-sex erotic fiction was sent to jail for 10 years in November. In April, the ruler of the tiny, oil-rich kingdom of Brunei announced he would introduce death by stoning for those convicted of gay sex. Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah has since said the death penalty will not be imposed, although he did not repeal the law. In Indonesia, declining secularism has led to deepening discrimination against the country's gay, lesbian and transgender communities. Last year, two men accused of being gay received 87 lashes for gay sex in the country's conservative Aceh province. More than two dozen countries around the world allow gay marriage, according to Pew Research. Update: This story has been updated to reflect Taiwan's status CNN's Steven Jiang in Beijing contributed to this report. Celebrating Pride around the world We may never know who threw the first brick outside the Stonewall Inn on Christopher Street in Manhattan's Greenwich Village in the wee hours of June 28, 1969. Was it a young white man from the Midwest (as suggested in "Stonewall," a 2015 film that prompted boycott petitions launched by the Gay-Straight Alliance Network of school students and MoveOn.org under accusations of "whitewashing" the real history) or the transgender women of color who've been increasingly recognized as the first to fight back that night? Either way, the patrons of that private club, who clashed with police during a raid ostensibly for selling liquor without a permit, helped catalyze the modern movement for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, intersex and asexual rights (LGBTQIA) in the United States and beyond. Fifty years later, cities across the globe are gearing up for Pride events to celebrate civil rights victories won, push for greater equality and party down with friends. "If the poison is shame, the antidote is pride," says Ed Salvato, paraphrasing activists who pioneered the modern gay rights movement. These queer pioneers, as Salvato, chief content officer of Man About World, an app-based mobile gay travel magazine, explains, realized that despite not yet having political power, they could choose to be themselves, proudly, without bending to society's expectations. This objective gave birth to Pride with a capital P. In the five decades since, a new emphasis on inclusivity has changed the public face of the LGBTQIA movement, highlighting the diversity of communities who, through a mélange of parties and politics, have been fighting for equal rights all along. Here's a rundown of some of this year's best destinations to get your Pride on worldwide. New York City: June 1-30 Always a major Pride destination, the Big Apple will become an even bigger global draw this year as the site of the first US-based WorldPride with 50+ events over a span of 30 days, from June 1 to June 30, 2019, dubbed Stonewall50. Organizers expect more than 3 million people will attend the scores of lectures, rallies and parties, both free and ticketed. Following the kick-off Garden Party on June 24 to benefit the LGBT Community Center, a Human Rights Conference will bring together activists, artists, educators, writers, political figures, and other top thinkers on June 24 and 25. Other events include: Pride Island, a two-day music festival on Pier 97 in Hudson River Park with headliner Grace Jones; a "graphic art, anime, and manga-inspired costume party for all nerdy members of the LGBTQ+ community" called Cosplay & Pride; the Chelsea Challenge ice hockey tournament; Femme Fatale, the "official rooftop party for women"; and four days of Gay & Sober Pride events, including workshops, presentations, meetings, and activities. To commemorate the Stonewall Uprising and the first "Gay Power" demonstration in NYC held in 1969 a month later that brought together 500 people, NYC Pride is hosting Rally, a civil rights demonstration to speak out against the human rights abuses of today, on Friday, June 28, 2019. Culminating the month of festivities, the infamous Pride March kicks off on Sunday, June 30th at noon, featuring more than 550 marching contingents and over 100 floats. Registration to join the march has already closed, but taking in the spectacle from the sidelines is open, and free—unless you'd prefer to pay $200 for the March Grandstand, which includes premium, stadium-style seating, VIP restrooms and refreshments. (Never underestimate the value of easy bathroom access in NYC—especially when the streets are as mobbed as they get during Pride!) Amsterdam, Netherlands: July 27 -- August 4 The theme of Pride Amsterdam 2019, also commemorating the five nights of Stonewall riots that changed history, is "Remember the past. Create the future." The Netherlands's own watershed demonstration took place seven years later during a protest organized by the International Lesbian Alliance, which later evolved into an annual event called "Roze Zaterdag" (Pink Saturday) that takes place in different Dutch city each year. While Pink Saturday started as a protest march, Pride Amsterdam began as a party celebrating freedom and diversity and promoting the city as a gay destination, says Pride Amsterdam's director Lucien Spee. Only later was the "emancipatory content" added to create today's more well-rounded festival. Main events include the July 27 Pride Walk and Pride Park which, following the Walk, turns Vondelpark into an "Open Air Theater" with performances, sports, games and a rainbow market selling pride merch and offering information from a variety of organizations, as well as activities for young people. Other Pride programming includes art, theater, film, debate and sports events as well as multiple street parties (find an impressive list of them here) that rage throughout the city on Friday and Saturday nights, creating a festive spirit that some have likened to a "mini Mardi Gras." The grand finale Closing Party will be held from 2 -- 10pm on Sunday in Dam Square, a busy center filled with shops, restaurants and food stalls. The square is home to the grand 17th century Koninklijk Palace, former residence of the Dutch Royal family; Madame Tussauds's famous wax museum; and Nieuwe Kerk (New Church), now used as an exhibit space for important art shows. But before that denouement, the highlight of Pride Amsterdam is, of course, the world-famous Canal Parade, held this year from 12:30 -- 5pm on August 3, featuring parade floats that actually float. This year's parade will include 80 boats, says Spee, all supporting the main message of the event: "Be who you are. Love who you want." Salvato says it's not easy to get onto an official float, but some insist the best way to join in the fun is to stake out a spot along the canals early, and come prepared with food, drink and a bunch of friends. You could easily spend four hours or more taking in the colorful, high-energy spectacle of costumes, synchronized dances and overall pageantry that draws an international crowd of more than half a million people of all ages, genders and sexualities. Vienna, Austria: June 1-16 "We are more than our borders. We are more than the languages we speak and the colour of our skin. We are more than our gender and who we want to love." This is the mission statement and message that EuroPride 2019, hosted in Vienna, Austria, intends to deliver. An easy train ride or plane flight from more conservative countries nearby, Vienna offers the perfect opportunity for people looking for a Pride experience to visit, or revisit, one of the richest, most beautiful cities in all of Europe. Organizers expect a million people to attend. On June 1, the EuroPride Fest kicks off with Andersrum in Mariahilf, a famous street festival drawing about 5,000 people with colorful performances throughout the day near Mariahilferstraße, one of Vienna's largest shopping streets. Then, on June 9, families can visit the oldest zoo in Europe, Tiergarten Schönbrunn, for a full day of programming for children and teenagers or join the all-ages crowd for EuroPride Beach Day on the Danube Canal, featuring yoga, children's activities, brunch and a DJ-accompanied cocktail happy hour in the afternoon. Throughout the fest, visitors can take advantage of Pride guided tours through the city's most prominent museums to gain a glimpse of Vienna's rich history, which includes numerous gay and lesbian emperors, warlords, princesses and composers. Or take a gay city tour with stops at the Vienna Opera, the Imperial Palace, Providentia Fountain, Neuer Markt and the Park of Belvedere Palace—the summer residence of one of the most prominent gay people in Austrian history: Prince Eugene of Savoy (1663--1736). Check here for more about what Vienna has to offer LGBT folks, including cafes, bars, and restaurants; the drag scene; gay saunas; shopping; as well as women-focused venues "created for and by women." To honor the political origins of the movement on this 50th anniversary of Stonewall, the organizers of this year's EuroPride event have teamed up with the Vienna Anti-Discrimination Agency for Same Sex and Transgender Lifestyles (WASt) to the plan the EuroPride Conference 2019—the largest LGBTQIA conference in Austrian history—held from Wednesday to Friday, June 12 to 14. Their goal is to create opportunities for an international exchange of ideas, highlighting key issues affecting LGBTQIA people in the areas of human rights, business and community through talks and practical workshops. The culminating EuroPride event, on June 15, will be the Rainbow Parade along the Ringstrasse, known as one of the world's most beautiful boulevards, followed by a closing rally back at Pride Village in Rathausplatz (City Hall Square), where speeches and performers will take the stage before closing out the affair with a dance party. When choosing your lodging, stay near Wienzeile for gay nightlife or in historic Old Town if cultural landmarks are more your vibe. Taipei, Taiwan: October 26-27 On the last weekend of October, 80,000 people are expected to converge on Kaidagelan Boulevard in Taipei, dubbed "the San Francisco of the East," to participate in the largest annual Pride event in Asia. They'll also be celebrating a major civil rights victory at this year's Pride. On May 17, lawmakers in Taiwan approved a bill legalizing same-sex marriage, a landmark decision that makes the self-ruled island the first place in Asia to pass gay marriage legislation. The organizers say that Taipei's Pride has evolved, over the years, "from a political rally to a celebration of gay culture, making it fun for everyone." In contrast with more regulated marches like in NYC, Taipei's Parade skips the barricades, allowing easy intermingling between marchers and spectators, many of whom also walk the two-hour loop that takes revelers through the city before circling back to the starting point. There on Kaidagelan Boulevard, a "Pride Village" offers stalls highlighting gay nonprofits and other organizations as well as a main stage for performers and local celebrities. "Everyone's dressed in rainbow. It's like this big LGBT rainbow cultural experience that the whole city is involved in—not just queer people," says Salvato. "So, you have kids wearing rainbow makeup and people with kooky hair dyed all different colors and grandmas walking in the parade. It's really kind of extraordinary." The parties continue all weekend long with circuit parties featuring legendary international DJs and "the hottest go-go boys" in Taiwan. One of the most popular parties is held on Saturday night at the FIVE-star W Hotel Taipei. When booking your travel, consider staying in the Xinyi district, which has some of the city's best hotels. From there the Parade and Pride Village are a short taxi ride away, as are the gay bars and clubs of the Red District. GayTaipei4U offers lots of details about the city's famous gay saunas—all seven of them—including the Aniki Club. Aniki features a 24-hour restaurant and private cabins in addition to three large pools (hot, cool and jacuzzi), where the admission fee includes a 16-hour stay, with in and out privileges. Prague, Czech Republic: August 5-11 The Czech Republic is known not only for its beautiful castles and medieval buildings but also, increasingly, as the most gay-friendly among nations in Central and Eastern Europe. Since its beginnings in 2011, when 25,000 attended, the Pride celebration in the republic's capital city of Prague has grown each year. In 2018, 40 percent of attendees were Prague residents while 29 percent visited from elsewhere in the Czech Republic and a full 25 percent had arrived from other countries. This year the festival offers an entire week of more than 100 cultural and social events, public discussions and debates, sports events and spiritual encounters. Nearly 100,000 visitors are expected. As in other cities, the festival's highlight is the parade. Prague's three-hour-long march departs from Wenceslas Square at 2pm, then winds through the city via Příkopy and Revoluční Streets and across the Vltava river to Letná Park where beer, cocktails, food stalls, and three DJ stages keep the party hopping. If you visit for Pride, stay to see the rest of the city. One of Prague's most spectacular attractions is the Old Town Square (Staromestské námestí), established in the 12th century as the city's original marketplace where you can see the stunning 15th century Astronomical Clock, the baroque Church of St Nicholas, the rococo Kinský Palace and the gothic Stone Bell House. Be sure to visit the sprawling Prague Castle in the morning hours before the throngs descend. And don't leave Prague without trying the pickled cheese!—a Camembert-style fromage marinated in oil and spices. Served with topinky, a dense brown bread that's deep-fried, nakládaný hermelín is a popular bar snack that goes well with another Czech specialty: beer. When booking your lodging, consider staying in the old town, which will put you within walking distance of many of Prague's highlights—not to mention many of the city's gay clubs and bars. Jessica DuLong is a journalist, historian, book collaborator and writing coach as well as the author of "Dust to Deliverance: Untold Stories from the Maritime Evacuation on September 11" and "My River Chronicles: Rediscovering the Work that Built America; A Personal and Historical Journey." 5 things to know for May 17: US and Iran, Taiwan, pregnant woman killed, SAT tests, Canada and the Philippines (CNN)Would you stay in a hotel run by Taco Bell? You might get your chance this summer in Palm Springs, California. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here.) 1. US and Iran The United States says it has multiple images of Iranian commercial ships in the Persian Gulf that it believes are carrying missiles. An official told CNN that recent surveillance has shown some of the ships moving in and out of Iranian ports in the recent days. CNN hasn't reviewed the intelligence that led to this assessment. And the government hasn't provided any proof the ships are carrying hidden missiles or any other munitions. All this comes as the United States has moved bombers and a carrier strike group into the region. Fears of a potential military conflict between the countries have increased over the past couple of weeks. Officials in Washington are debating whether Iran is planning to attack US assets or whether it is acting defensively in an attempt to deter US action. 2. Taiwan Taiwan legalized same-sex marriage today, becoming the first place in Asia to pass such legislation. Lawmakers took up the controversial issue after the island's Constitutional Court ruled that the existing law -- which said marriage was between a man and a woman -- was unconstitutional. The bill passed today goes into effect at the end of next week. Gay rights seems to have regressed in the rest of Asia. Homosexuality is legal in mainland China, but prejudices and discrimination persist under the Communist Party. And just last month, Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah, the ruler of Brunei, said he'd introduce death by stoning for those convicted of gay sex. (He later walked that back.) More than two dozen countries around the world allow same-sex marriage, according to the Pew Research Center. 3. Pregnant woman killed Police arrested and charged three people in a ghastly killing of a pregnant teen in Chicago. Marlen Ochoa-Lopez, 19, disappeared late last month after she went to receive an offer of free baby clothes from a woman she had communicated with online. Ochoa-Lopez's body was found Tuesday in a garbage can in the backyard of the woman who had offered the clothes. She had been strangled and her unborn baby forcibly removed from her womb, police said. The baby is in grave condition at a hospital. Two people, including the woman who police say lured the teen to the home, were charged with murder, while a third person was charged with concealment of a crime. Here are some safety tips to remember if you're meeting someone to buy or sell items in online transactions. 4. SAT tests Students who come from tough backgrounds just might catch a break the next time they take the SAT. The College Board, the nonprofit group that runs the standardized test, said it will start assigning a score to students who take the SAT to reflect their social and economic backgrounds. The Environmental Context Dashboard would factor in things such as crime and poverty in a student's neighborhood to capture their "resourcefulness to overcome challenges and achieve more with less." This dashboard score will not include a student's race. College admissions are under heightened scrutiny after indictments were handed down against wealthy and powerful parents who allegedly paid their kids' ways into elite universities. 5. Canada and the Philippines Canada and the Philippines are feeling some kind of way about each other right now. The two countries are having a diplomatic squabble -- over trash. And not just any old trash, mind you. They're fighting about 6-year-old trash. The tensions have gotten so bad that the Philippines has recalled its ambassador to Canada. This trash tiff started in 2013 when more than 100 containers of material from Canada arrived in the Port of Manila. It was supposed to be recyclable plastic; it turned out to be nonrecyclable plastic, household waste and diapers. Now Canada is accused of violating an international treaty governing the transport of hazardous waste. The Philippines wants the garbage gone, and President Rodrigo Duterte has threatened to ship it all back and "throw them into the shores or beach of Canada." BREAKFAST BROWSE People are talking about these. Read up. Join in. 'Game' over?
More than 300,000 "Game of Thrones" fans are so ticked off about the way this final season has played out, they've signed a petition demanding a remake. They also need a life. Mother's Day millionaire
Her sister bought her a $1 lottery ticket as a Mother's Day gift. Turns out it's the gift that keeps giving. That ticket was worth $1.3 million. Safe and sound
A toddler was lost in the Kentucky woods for about three days. No one could find him until searchers heard his cries. Tell me why
The Backstreet Boys just put out a new 20th anniversary edition of "I Want It That Way." You know what that means? We're all officially old. Hot fuzz
Meet "Constable Scarecrow," the lifelike cutout of a police officer that's keeping the clamp on speeders in a Canadian town. TOTAL RECALL Quiz time
This sculptor's piece became the most expensive work by a living artist to sell at auction. A. Richard Prince B. Jeff Koons C. Yayoi Kusama D. Ai Weiwei Play Total Recall, CNN's weekly news quiz, to see if your answer is correct. TODAY'S QUOTE "I would rather starve to death than change my opinions in that regard." Chelsea Manning, who was found in contempt again by a federal judge for refusing to testify before a grand jury. She was sent back to jail, just seven days after being released from the same jail. TODAY'S NUMBER Almost $6,000 The value of the wine that a UK restaurant accidentally served to an unknowing customer. TODAY'S WEATHER AND FINALLY ... Take a dip
It's Friday, and the world's largest Jello pool beckons. (Click to view.)  Trump's trade war shows how China has lost all its friends in Washington Hong Kong (CNN)Better relations with China used to be a bipartisan issue in Washington. Beginning with Richard Nixon's history-making visit to Beijing in 1972, subsequent administrations -- both Democrat and Republican -- worked to improve relations with Beijing. Democrat Jimmy Carter formally recognized the People's Republic of China over Taiwan, Republican George H.W. Bush maintained dialogue with Chinese leaders in the years following the Tiananmen Massacre, and Democrat Bill Clinton supported China's membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO). That sense of steadiness and dependability has begun to unravel during President Donald Trump's time in office. This week, he ramped up a crackdown on Chinese telecoms giant Huawei, amid a worsening trade war with Beijing that is causing economic hardship on both sides. But while there are many topics where Trump is an iconoclast, out of step with some of his Republican colleagues, let alone the Democrats, this is not it. Bipartisan consensus has swung hard against Beijing in recent years, with some opposition lawmakers in Washington even calling on Trump to take a harder approach. "There is a broad hawkishness on China that straddles left, right, and center," said Patrick Lozada, China director at the Washington-based strategic advisory firm Albright Stonebridge Group (ASG). "The problem with this consensus is that in the absence of a credible counter-argument, the actual facts on the ground can sometimes be lost as people compete to see who can be more hawkish." Trade war When Trump introduced new tariffs on Chinese products last year, there were complaints from top Democrats -- that he didn't go far enough. "The United States must take strong, smart and strategic action against China's brazenly unfair trade policies," Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi said at the time. "Yet, today's announcement is merely a start, and the Trump Administration must do much more to fight for American workers and products." Even today, as the expansion of those tariffs have started to bite both consumers and manufacturers at home, offering a tantalizing attack line for Democrats in 2020, criticisms from those in the party's leadership are of Trump's execution, not his target. "We should not be having a multifront war on tariffs," Democrat Senator Chuck Schumer said this week. "I would focus everything on China. And get the Europeans, Canadians and Mexicans to be on our side and focus on China. Because they are the great danger." On Trump's side of the aisle, voices critical of his deal have been outweighed by Republicans wanting to take an even harder line on China -- even as many sought to rein him in on expanding tariffs against European allies. "The President is right to hold China's feet the fire on this," Senator John Barrasso told CNN on Wednesday. "They wouldn't be negotiating at all if it weren't for what the President has done ... The President has his own timeline. I support what he is doing." Broad front "I'm hard-pressed to think of another consensus in American foreign policy that's moved as far and as fast as the US consensus on China," Richard Hass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, a New York-based think tank, said in February. "People have grown weary of Chinese trade practices, of technology theft. But it's also a reflection of what's going inside China ... with the treatment of the Uyghurs, the abolition of (term) limits by the president. And it's also because of strategic concerns such as the South China Sea and what China has done there." Lozada, the ASG analyst, said that "Beijing has failed to grasp the changing nature of US politics and the growing concerns about the slow pace of reform in China. When President Trump took office, they regarded him as a transactional businessman without taking serious his remarks about trade on the campaign trail and growing skepticism of China's role in the global economy at all levels." Bipartisan China hawkishness isn't only hurting Beijing on trade either. Human rights, often an overlooked topic in relations with Beijing, have come back to the fore, along with calls for punitive sanctions that would further weaken China's economy in the middle of a trade war. This week, leading Hong Kong democrats were on Capitol Hill to testify before the Congressional-Executive Commission on China (CECC), a bipartisan panel which issues an annual report on the state of human rights in China and has grown in influence under the Trump administration. In his opening remarks, CECC chair James McGovern, a Democratic congressman, said he believed "it is time for the United States to consider new and innovative policies to support the people of Hong Kong." McGovern and others have suggested Washington review the US-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, under which it treats the city as a separate customs territory to the rest of China, so long as Hong Kong remains "sufficiently autonomous." Suspending Hong Kong's special status could devastate the city's economy and also hit Beijing hard, given its reliance on Hong Kong's financial sector. CECC members, including Republican Senator Marco Rubio, have called for China to be sanctioned under the Magnitsky Acts for its oppression of the Uyghur minority in Xinjiang, where hundreds of thousands if not millions of mostly Muslim people have been detained in "re-education camps." The Magnitsky Acts, which impose visa sanctions and asset freezes on alleged human rights violators, were originally introduced to go after Russia and have since been expanded to target officials from Myanmar, Saudi Arabia, and other countries. A bipartisan group of lawmakers, led by Rubio, have called for China to be added to the list. Doing so would strike a major blow against the finances and freedom to travel of top Chinese officials, but would also torpedo any hopes of improving relations with Beijing. Dangers of further split Despite widespread skepticism and hostility towards China in Washington today, better bilateral relations in the past paid off for both countries. China's economy exploded after it entered the WTO in 2000, and the US has long enjoyed the benefits of cheap Chinese manufacturing. The chances of relations reaching a breaking point and turning into an open conflict are slight, but very real. US military leaders have expressed alarm over China's moves in the South China Sea and towards Taiwan, as Washington has ramped up its own military engagement in the region, something Beijing regards as a provocation. Taiwan has bought weapons from the US and lobbied for even greater support from Washington. The island's de facto independence from China has always been guaranteed to some extent by a belief that the US may come to its aid in a military conflict with Beijing. While relations are unlikely to sour to the point of actual conflict there is a risk of a new Cold War developing, with other nations forced to choose sides. That could create a bloc allied against Washington, something that it has not faced since the height of the original Cold War. As commentator Henry Luce wrote in December, better relations between Washington and Beijing under Nixon helped exacerbate the Sino-Soviet split, one factor which resulted in the USSR's eventual collapse. "Mr Trump is triggering a 'reverse Nixon'," Luce wrote. "Decades of convergence is going into reverse. It is happening at a speed that is taking even Americans by surprise." That was five months ago, and things have only sped up since then.  What are China's naval goals? The West can't wait to find out Carl Schuster is a retired US Navy captain, a former director of operations at the US Pacific Command's Joint Intelligence Center, a current Hawaii Pacific University instructor and a part-time defense consultant. he opinions expressed in this commentary are solely his own. Newport, Rhode Island (CNN)It's no secret that China's navy has experienced unprecedented growth, rapid modernization and an expanded range of operations over the past 15 years -- and this has raised concerns about the country's ultimate intentions. At a conference earlier this month, more than 200 naval experts gathered at the United States Naval War College to discuss these concerns and the broader challenges posed by China's expanded naval power. One expert, the US Pacific Fleet's former intelligence chief, retired Navy Capt. James Fanell noted that China's People's Liberation Army Navy, or PLAN for short, has commissioned nearly four times as many ships as the US Navy over the last decade. Another participant mentioned that the ratio of naval power in the Western Pacific has shifted in China's favor with the PLAN possessing 106 naval missile platforms in the Western Pacific versus the US Navy's 22. Perhaps more significantly, the panels noted China claims it has made rapid progress in developing laser, hypersonic and electromagnetic pulse weapons programs and unmanned systems. But despite its resources, China and the PLAN face challenges and shortfalls that preclude it from being the threat these advances might suggest. One big problem: China's military branches still don't work that well together, despite a strong push by President Xi Jinping that they do so and recent reforms establishing joint theater commands. The PLA has yet to demonstrate full service integration in its exercises, suggesting much work remains to be done. Joint exercises continue to be small-scale, and the services' roles in them remain separated either physically or chronologically. This means gaps remain in multi-service operations, particularly in operations beyond the First Island Chain or "Far Seas." China enjoys surveillance superiority over the waters near its coast (the Near Seas) but not in the Far Seas. Its lack of sea-based air power and overseas bases to provide land-based air support limits the PLAN's capacity to project power ashore by other than land-attack cruise missiles or unmanned systems. While the PLAN has significantly increased its overseas operations since it started anti-piracy operations 11 years ago, it has yet to demonstrate the capability to protect its sea lines of communications through the Indian Ocean, through which 70% of China's energy requirements and over 80% of its trade must pass. It has a naval support base in Djibouti and access agreements in the region, but the PLAN's logistics train lacks the capacity to support the deployed forces required to counter a major opponent. Nonetheless, China's maritime challenge is very real. It has initiated a massive oceanographic research and survey effort across virtually all the world's oceans. And the PLAN does operate globally, conducting exercises with more than 30 nations and operating in all the world's oceans and four of the seven seas. And China's marine strategy, authored by its Maritime Commerce Ministry, brings numbers to bear that no country can match, by closely integrating China's civic, commercial, diplomatic and naval operations. For example, Chinese companies and merchant shipping constituted the first responders to Mozambique following recent typhoon devastation. The PLAN has a supporting role in that strategy, advancing China's economic and political interests. While regional goals, including dominance of the "near seas" -- Taiwan and the South China Sea -- remain the PLAN's main focus, China's leaders are addressing the PLAN's worldwide ambitions and plan to achieve those goals before 2050. The West's experts and intelligence community must monitor its progress closely, shedding past assumptions when assessing new information to provide decision makers the insights required to anticipate and forestall any aggressive designs that China may harbor. Deterring conflict requires adequate force levels and clear understanding of all the parties' actions and intentions. To this point, the West has done a poor job figuring this out and is now playing catch-up. Capt. Fanell described it as the "US intelligence community and academia miscalculation of the scope, scale and timing of the PLAN's modernization and its impact on US national security." China presently maintains a near global presence on the world's oceans, its fleet is growing rapidly and its intentions seem more assertive than Beijing's official statements profess. If dominating any portion of the "Far Seas" is China's goal, waiting for Beijing to achieve it before responding is not an option that assures peace. China is employing an integrated multi-agency approach to expanding its influence in every continent. It has established economic links with countries across the world, and its Belt and Road Initiate (BRI) has both continental and maritime dimensions. Its media outlets, commercial companies, diplomats and military all have roles in Beijing's national strategy. Countering China's strategy will require a similar comprehensive diplomatic, economic and military response.  Doctors have more time than thought to treat stroke patients, study suggests (CNN)Time is the most crucial element when it comes to treating patients who are experiencing a stroke -- and a new study suggests that that crucial window could be a little longer than previously thought. Thrombolytic medicine, which helps break up blood clots, typically is administered to treat an ischemic stroke within 4½ hours of the start of symptoms. Yet the study, published in The New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday, suggests that treatment between 4½ and nine hours after stroke symptoms emerged still could offer benefit. A thrombolyic drug called alteplase is the only medication approved by the US Food and Drug Administration to treat acute ischemic stroke and is administered through an IV. Most strokes, about 87%, are ischemic strokes, which occur when the artery that supplies oxygen-rich blood to the brain gets blocked, often by a collection of blood called a clot. Even though the new study findings are "exciting," Dr. Carmelo Graffagnino, a vascular neurologist at Duke Health and medical director of the Duke Comprehensive Stroke Center in Durham, North Carolina, pointed out that the American Stroke Association and other medical groups have not weighed in as far as making formal changes to stroke treatment guidelines. With additional research, however, that could happen. "What was really exciting is that in vascular neurology, or stroke, we were forever stuck with treating patients by the clock rather than by what was actually going on in their brain," said Graffagnino, who was not involved in the study but saw parts of the research presented at the International Stroke Conference in February. "We think this is just the beginning of using biology and not the clock to treat the right patients," he said. In the United States, someone has a stroke every 40 seconds, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. A benefit for rural or low-income health centers The new study involved 225 adults who had strokes between 2010 and 2018 in Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and Finland. The patients were randomly assigned to receive either a thrombolytic therapy or placebo between 4½ and nine hours after the onset of their strokes. The researchers found that recanalization, or restoration of blood flow, was achieved at 24 hours after the stroke in 67.3% of the patients in the therapy group, compared with 39.4% in the placebo group. The study also found that the degree of disability after the stroke, measured on what's called a modified Rankin scale, was zero or minimal among more patients in the therapy group, at 35.4%, compared with the patients in the placebo group, at 29.5%. The percentage of patients who died within 90 days of treatment or placebo did not differ significantly between the groups, according to the study. "About 80% of the patients in this trial had large vessel clots, which means that they would actually be candidates for mechanical thrombectomy -- for pulling the clot out using a catheter -- and the success rate of pulling a clot out by catheter is much higher than the success rate of dissolving a clot with a medication," Graffagnino said. If a patient may not have access to thrombectomy, however, the study suggests that thrombolysis could be a beneficial option. "This has really big implications for more distal places, more rural hospitals that are quite far from an advanced treatment center, for low- or middle-income countries where interventions, such as thrombectomy, are limited due to their resources," he said. Globally, about 70% of strokes and 87% of both stroke-related deaths and disabilities occur in low- and middle-income countries, according to the World Health Organization. The new study had some limitations, including a sample size smaller than intended, because the research was terminated early after positive results from a previous trial were published. 'The era of time-based treatment ... may finally be drawing to a close' The new study "reinforces the importance of individualizing acute stroke treatment and not simply excluding patients because of the time they were last seen normal," Dr. Fadi Nahab, medical director for the Stroke Program at Emory University Hospital, who was not involved in the study, wrote in an email. Many hospitals offer IV alteplase only if a patient experienced stroke symptoms within 4½ hours and exclude those who may have awoken from sleep with stroke symptoms because the onset time would be unknown, Nahab said. So the extension of that time window provides "stroke center hospitals with additional opportunities to treat patients who come in within 4.5 to nine hours or who develop new stroke symptoms on awakening from sleep," he said. Even though more research is needed to validate the study's findings, "the era of time-based treatment with intravenous alteplase in patients with acute stroke may finally be drawing to a close," Dr. Randolph Marshall, a neurologist at Columbia University in New York, wrote in an editorial published alongside the new study. "As of 2013, only 6.5% of patients hospitalized for ischemic stroke in the United States received intravenous thrombolysis treatment," he wrote. "Extending the time window for treatment could result in greater numbers of patients eligible to receive treatment for acute stroke."  Bitcoin bull predicts prices will triple by 2021 — but fears 'melt-up' in stocks Las Vegas (CNN Business)Bitcoin's recovery from last year's epic crash may have just begun. Bitcoin bull Michael Novogratz told CNN Business that the crypto currency will triple over the next 18 months and return to its all-time high of nearly $20,000. "Out of the rubble, bitcoin has popped back up," Novogratz said from the sidelines of the SALT Conference in Las Vegas. The notoriously volatile cryptocurrency is currently worth around $6,000, surging up from $3,100 last December. Novogratz, a former hedge fund manager and Goldman Sachs investment banker, doesn't believe bitcoin will return to those lows. The catch would be if there was a devastating hack against a crypto exchange or a sudden shift in regulation. "It would take something like that to shatter this newfound confidence," said Novogratz, who is the founder and CEO of Galaxy Digital, a crypto merchant bank. Confidence did not appear to be shaken by a massive security breach at one of the world's largest currency exchanges. Bitcoin prices rallied despite the news that hackers stole $40 million of bitcoin from Binance, a Taiwan-based company. "For institutions to feel comfortable, you've got to have a lot less of this," he said. Novogratz urged crypto exchanges to "self-regulate" to bolster their security and instill confidence in bitcoin. "A little bit of guardrails can go a long way," he said. Others remain deeply skeptical of bitcoin due in part to the extreme price swings. Nouriel "Dr. Doom" Roubini knocked bitcoin on Wednesday at SALT as the "mother and father of all bubbles and busts." Roubini, a professor at New York University, noted that bitcoin's crash far exceeds those experienced after the dotcom bubble and even the tulip mania of the 1630s. Bitcoin has "no future as a currency" and is subject to "massive manipulation," Roubini said. 'Frothy' stock market While Novogratz remains uber-bullish on bitcoin, he's concerned about overexuberance in the stock market. "We've got a chance of an equity melt-up. You're seeing that in the enthusiasm around IPOs," Novogratz said. On Friday, Uber is going public in a blockbuster IPO set to raise around $9 billion or more. Last week, Beyond Meat (BYND) spiked 163% on its IPO day. It was the strongest first-day pop for a US company since March 2000 when Palm Inc. went public, according to Dealogic. "These frenzies rarely last. Gravity comes back into play," Novogratz said. While he doesn't believe the market is at the top, Novogratz does see signs that things are getting "frothy." "Markets usually end in one super-spike, some searing frenzy of activity," he said. Fed could bring on a 'melt-up' One catalyst for that kind of euphoria could be the Federal Reserve. President Donald Trump has urged the Fed to slash interest rates by a full-percentage point — a startling move normally reserved for a crisis, not a healthy economy. "The Fed making a policy error by cutting into a strong economy might lead to a quick melt-up — and that could be the end," Novogratz said. Billionaire Sam Zell similarly warned on Wednesday of a "disaster" if the Fed listens to Trump by sharply lowering interest rates. Such a move, Zell said, would deal an enormous blow to the US dollar. Stephen Moore, a controversial campaign adviser to Trump, told the SALT audience that it was "so stupid" for the Fed to raise rates last year. Moore, who last week under pressure withdrew his name from consideration to join the Fed, urged the US central bank to swiftly lower rates. Moore also cheered the Republican tax cuts, saying they worked "even better than we thought they would." Asked about Moore's comments, Novogratz questioned the wisdom of the administration's decision to "cut taxes into a strong economy" and deepen America's budget deficit. "I'm glad Stephen Moore is not on the Fed," Novogratz added.  Hackers steal $40 million worth of bitcoin in massive security breach New York (CNN Business)Binance, a major cryptocurrency exchange, says hackers stole more than $40 million worth of bitcoin from its customers. The Taiwan-based company, one of the world's largest crypto exchanges, announced that it discovered a "large scale security breach" Tuesday. It said hackers stole 7,000 bitcoins in one transaction. One bitcoin trades at nearly $6,000. "The hackers used a variety of techniques, including phishing, viruses and other attacks," CEO Changpeng Zhao wrote in the statement. He said the company continues to investigate the breach. Zhao explained that the hackers waited for the best time to conduct their operation, but he didn't clarify specifically how the hack went undetected. "The transaction is structured in a way that passed our existing security checks," he said. "Once executed, the withdrawal triggered various alarms in our system. We stopped all withdrawals immediately after that." The stolen bitcoin (XBT) will be reimbursed through Binance's secure asset fund, emergency insurance available in case of a breach. Binance warned that other accounts could be affected. Binance also temporarily suspended deposits and withdrawals, but it said bitcoin trading can continue. A security review of the incident will take at least a week. "We beg for your understanding in this difficult situation," Zhao wrote. The hack is coming during a time when bitcoin is hot once again. Bitcoin prices have surged nearly 60% this year after plunging almost 75% in 2018.  Commercial Passenger Airplane Crashes Fast Facts These are commercial passenger airplane crashes with fatalities over 200 or ones that are otherwise notable. No crashes resulting from terrorist or military action are included. (CNN)Here's a look at commercial passenger airplane crashes. For crashes caused by military acts or by terrorism, see Terrorism and War-Related Airplane Crashes Fast Facts. On August 12, 1985, the largest number of deaths in a single commercial airplane crash occurred when a Japan Air Lines Boeing 747 crashed into Mt. Ogura in Japan, killing 520 passengers and crew members. The deadliest commercial airplane accident occurred on March 27, 1977, when two Boeing 747s collided on a runway on the Spanish island of Tenerife, killing 583. Timeline:

December 14, 1920 - Believed to be one of the first known commercial passenger airplane crashes, a British Handley Page HP-16 en route to Paris from London crashes just after takeoff, killing four of the eight people onboard. March 3, 1974 - 346 people are killed when a Turkish Airlines DC-10 crashes in France, as a result of the cargo door not being fully latched. March 27, 1977 - A KLM Royal Dutch Airlines Boeing 747 crashes into a Pan American World Airways Boeing 747 at the Los Rodeos Airport at Tenerife in the Canary Islands, killing a total of 583 (335 fatalities on the Pan American airplane and all 234 passengers plus 14 crew members on the KLM plane). The accident occurs when the KLM airplane begins its takeoff while the Pan American airplane is still on the runway. May 25, 1979 - An American Airlines DC-10 crashes after takeoff from Chicago O'Hare International Airport, killing 271 onboard and another two on the ground. During takeoff, an engine on the left wing falls off; the FAA later faults American Airlines maintenance techniques for the crash. November 28, 1979 - An Air New Zealand DC-10 crashes into Mt. Erebus in Antarctica and 257 people are killed. The crash is believed to be the result of a navigational error. August 19, 1980 - Shortly after takeoff, a Saudi Arabian Airlines Lockheed L-1011 initiates a return to Riyadh International Airport due to a fire in the aft cargo compartment. The pilot lands the plane safely and continues to a taxiway. All 301 passengers and crew members perish in the fire before an evacuation is initiated. August 12, 1985 - The largest number of deaths in a single commercial airplane crash occurs when a Japan Air Lines Boeing 747 crashes into Mt. Ogura in Japan, killing 520 passengers and crew members. April 28, 1988 - An Aloha Airlines Boeing 737 decompresses, causing an in-air explosion. The pilot manages to land the plane safely, but one person is killed and dozens of passengers and crew members are injured. Later, the NTSB faults the airline's maintenance program for failing to address signs of metal fatigue and disbonding which ultimately caused the fuselage separation. The Aviation Safety Research Act of 1988 is passed by Congress as a result of this incident. May 26, 1991 - Fifteen minutes after takeoff, a thrust reverser deploys on Lauda Air Boeing 767 Flight 004. The plane crashes 70 miles northwest of Bangkok, Thailand. All 223 passengers and crew are killed. July 11, 1991 - The landing gear of a Nigeria Airways DC-8 catches on fire shortly after takeoff and upon return to the airport in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, the plane crashes, killing all 261 people onboard. April 26, 1994 - A China Airlines Airbus A300 crashes on approach to Nagoya Airport, Japan, and 264 people are killed July 17, 1996 - TWA Flight 800, a Boeing 747, explodes in air and crashes off the coast of Long Island, New York. All 230 people aboard are killed. The NTSB rules the explosion was caused by faulty wiring that ignited a center fuel tank. November 12, 1996 - A midair collision between a Saudi Arabian Airlines 747 and a Kazakhstan Airlines II-76 takes place at the New Delhi, India airport. All 349 people on both airplanes are killed. August 6, 1997 - A Korean Airlines Boeing 747 crashes in the Guam jungle and 228 people are killed. September 26, 1997 - A Garuda Indonesia Airlines Airbus A300 crashes in Buah Nabar, Indonesia, killing 234 people. February 16, 1998 - China Airlines' Flight 676 from Indonesia to Taiwan requests another landing approach at Taipei International Airport. In the process of turning around, the aircraft crashes into a neighborhood, killing 203 people, including seven on the ground. September 2, 1998 - A Swissair MD-11 crashes off Nova Scotia, Canada, killing 229. The Canadian Transportation Safety Board later concludes that flammable material and faulty wiring generated a fire that spread beyond the crew's control. October 31, 1999 - EgyptAir Flight 990, bound for Cairo from New York, crashes into the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Nantucket, Massachusetts, plunging 14,000 feet in 36 seconds. All 203 passengers and 14 crew members are killed. The US National Transportation Safety Board determines the crash was the result of the co-pilot's actions, but is unable to pinpoint why. It is widely believed the co-pilot deliberately caused the crash, but Egyptian authorities dispute this and reject the NTSB findings. July 25, 2000 - The Air France Concorde, en route to New York, crashes into a Paris hotel shortly after takeoff, killing 113 (all 109 aboard and four on the ground). November 12, 2001 - An American Airlines Airbus A300 crashes in Belle Harbor, Queens, shortly after takeoff from JFK Airport, killing a total of 265 people, including five people on the ground. May 25, 2002 - A China Airlines Boeing 747 crashes into the Taiwan Strait 20 minutes after takeoff, killing all 225 on board. The crash is later attributed to metal fatigue brought on by a previous faulty repair job January 15, 2009 - US Airways Flight 1549 lands in the Hudson River in New York City approximately three minutes after takeoff, and after hitting a flock of birds. All 155 aboard survive. The flight's pilot, Chesley B. "Sully" Sullenberger, emerged as a hero, with praise being heaped on him by passengers, officials and aviation experts. June 1, 2009 - Air France Flight 447 from Rio de Janeiro to Paris carrying 228 passengers and crew is lost over the Atlantic. The first bodies are recovered on June 6, approximately 600 miles off the northern coast of Brazil. On July 5, 2012, France's Bureau of Investigation and Analysis releases a report concluding that a series of errors by pilots and a failure to react effectively to technical problems led to the crash of Air France Flight 447. March 8, 2014 - Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappears from radar after taking off from Kuala Lumpur en route to Beijing. After more than 10 months of searching for the plane, on January 29, 2015, the government of Malaysia officially declares the loss of MH370 an accident and all passengers and crew, 239 people in total, are presumed dead. On July 30, 2018, while announcing the release of a safety investigation report, Malaysian authorities say they have failed to determine the cause of the plane's disappearance, while ruling out several possibilities. March 24, 2015 - Germanwings Flight 9525 crashes into the French Alps after taking off from Barcelona, Spain, en route to Dusseldorf, Germany. All 150 people on board are killed. On March 26, 2015, officials say that 27-year-old co-pilot Andreas Lubitz deliberately crashed the plane after locking the pilot out of the cockpit. A later investigation reveals that he had suffered from depression in the past. March 10, 2019 - A Boeing 737 MAX 8 crashes in Ethiopia, killing all 157 people on aboard, marking the second time in less than six months that one of the planes has crashed within minutes of takeoff. Lion Air Boeing 737 Max 8 flight went down over the Java Sea last October, killing 189 people. Both crashes are under investigation, and there is no evidence of a link between the two, but similarities between the incidents have prompted caution among some aviation authorities and airlines. On April 4, 2019, according to Boeing, a preliminary report on the Boeing 737 MAX 8 crash in Ethiopia "contains flight data recorder information indicating the airplane had an erroneous angle of attack sensor input that activated the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System (MCAS) function during the flight, as it had during the Lion Air 610 flight."  Global Emotions: Which countries are the most happy, sad or angry? Hey. How you been? It's a simple question, but it yields fascinating answers when asked on a global scale. In 2018, US-based analytics company Gallup asked 151,000 people in 143 countries a series of questions about how they'd felt the day before. Were they angry or sad? Did they smile or laugh? Did they learn something new? The results were illuminating. While other studies, such as the World Happiness Report, focuses on variables such as income, health and social support, the annual Global Emotions Report is about how people reflect on their own lives -- and the outcome is quite different. Paraguayan positivity Five of Gallup's questions were about positive experiences. More than seven in 10 people worldwide said they experienced a lot of enjoyment (71%), felt well-rested (72%), smiled or laughed a lot (74%) and felt treated with respect (87%). Paraguay, the little South American country with the chilled-out reputation, ranked highest worldwide for Positive Experiences, and has held this position since 2015. Says the Gallup report, "As they do year after year, Latin American countries dominated the list of countries in 2018 where adults reported feeling a lot of positive emotions each day. The high percentages reporting positive experiences in Latin America at least partly reflect the cultural tendency in the region to focus on life's positives." The Asian country of Indonesia was the only outlier. After Paraguay, the other most positive countries, in order, were Panama, Guatemala, Mexico, El Salvador, Indonesia, Honduras, Ecuador, Costa Rica and Colombia. Nigeria loves to smile Nigeria, the most populous country in Africa, has the third-largest youth population in the world. More than 90 million of its 186 million inhabitants are aged under 18. Perhaps this social, family-oriented environment is why Nigerians were most likely to have said they'd smiled or laughed a lot the day before, with more than nine in 10 giving a positive answer. Meanwhile, Mongolia is the country that's got tranquility locked down, with 86% saying they felt well-rested. Maybe it's having all those steppes, lakes, canyons and sand dunes to one's self; the population density is just two people per square kilometer, making it pretty easy to get away from it all. Less than half of people worldwide (49%) said they learned or did something interesting the day before the interview. So if you want to live a fulfilled life of of fresh experiences, moving to El Salvador, Panama or Guatemala is your best bet, since about three-quarters of these countries' respondents reported positive self-development. West African countries Senegal and Niger were close behind, with 73% and 72% respectively. Azerbaijan is a-okay The survey posed five questions to the interviewees relating to negative experiences: physical pain, worry, sadness, stress and anger. Gallup notes that "countries with the lowest negative scores do not necessarily have the highest positive scores, "adding that "results on this index are related to country of origin, suggesting that cultural bias exists in how people answer these questions." So while Sweden -- a top-ranking fixture in other world happiness lists -- is fourth-lowest for negative experiences, it's not No. 1. The top two slots go to Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan, two Silk Road countries which may not be on your global radar, but appear to be doing just fine as they are. In fact, if it's stress you're looking to avoid, a 'Stan is your only man. In Kyrgystan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, more than 86% of interviewees reported enjoying a stress-free yesterday. Taiwan was the country least likely to report feeling sad or worried, Estonia was the least angry and Vietnam was the least likely to have experienced physical pain. Chad tops Negative Experience Index Globally, more than one in three people said they experienced a lot of worry (39%) or stress (35%), and three in 10 experienced a lot of physical pain (31%). At least one in five experienced sadness (24%) or anger (22%). "While overall stress levels dropped two percentage points from the previous year, anger increased by two points -- hitting a new high," reports Gallup. "Worry and sadness, which were already at record levels, each increased by one point from the previous year." The Central African country of Chad, which became an oil-producing nation in 2003 but is currently troubled by political instability and violence, topped the Negative Experience Index for the first time. "The country's overall score at least partly reflects the violence, displacement and the collapse of basic services in parts of Chad that have affected thousands of families," says Gallup. "In 2018, more than seven in 10 Chadians (72%) said they struggled to afford food at some point in the past year." For the second year in a row, Afghanistan interviewees were the least likely to report positive experiences, with its score dropping five points to reach a record low. Gallup comments that the further decline in this conflict-ridden nation "reflects how devastating the negative cycle of poverty and violence has been to Afghans' daily experiences." Post-Soviet stoicism The report also provides a picture of the most and least emotional societies worldwide, says Gallup. By averaging the "yes" responses to the 10 questions that make up the Positive and Negative Experience Indexes, they noted that six in 10 people in Niger, the Philippines, Liberia and Ecuador reported feeling strong emotions on the day before the interview. "Countries in the sphere of the former Soviet Union were at the other end of the spectrum," says Gallup. " In Azerbaijan, Belarus and Latvia, fewer than four in 10 residents reported experiencing any of these feelings." Belarus, with a low of 34%, was most unflappable of all. US braced for Iranian response as oil crackdown starts Washington (CNN)The US is sanctioning friends and foes that import Iranian oil starting Thursday, but analysts say the White House might find it harder to eliminate Tehran's energy exports than it expects and Trump administration officials are bracing for Iran's response. As the administration ends waivers that allowed eight countries to continue purchasing Iranian crude and condensate, one administration official told CNN that they are concerned about the response from Tehran, which could target US assets in the Middle East and escalate tensions with the US and in the region. The administration has cut deeply into Iranian oil exports in a very short time, analysts say, and the waiver elimination aims to cut them off completely. US officials are wary, however, that countries will work to find ways around potential sanctions, through smuggling and the use of corporations with little connection to the US financial system. 'It's not going to go to zero' Burgeoning international conflict, competing foreign policy priorities and President Donald Trump's intense focus on the political impact of gasoline prices could also fray the administration's attempts to cut Tehran's estimated daily exports of 1.1 million to 1.3 million barrels a day to a stark zero. "I don't think Iranian oil will stop flowing," said Elizabeth Rosenberg, a former senior adviser at the Treasury Department. While Rosenberg said she expects "a big dip," she emphasized that "it is not going to go to zero. The US has a major enforcement challenge on its hands." In November, the administration gave eight countries waivers to continue their imports of Iranian crude and condensate: China, India, Turkey, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Greece and Italy. China, India and Turkey reportedly expected to receive extensions when the waivers expired May 2. The focus on oil exports is the latest step in the administration's "maximum pressure" campaign to create change inside Iran -- an effort some say is more focused on regime change. The intense US focus on Iran has alienated traditional allies in Europe who have stuck to the Iran nuclear deal that Trump abandoned. And friction over the US approach to Iran could undermine other foreign policy priorities, analysts say, as the White House works to forge tighter ties with India and reach a trade deal with China. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo left no room for compromise, however, when he made the April 22 announcement, taking energy markets by surprise. "Today I am announcing that we will no longer grant any exemptions," Pompeo told reporters that day. "We're going to zero -- going to zero across the board. We will continue to enforce sanctions and monitor compliance. Any nation or entity interacting with Iran should do its diligence and err on the side of caution. The risks are simply not going to be worth the benefits." Two days later, Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif pushed back at an Asia Society event in New York. "We believe that Iran will continue to sell its oil," he said. "We will continue to find buyers for our oil and we will continue to use the Strait of Hormuz as a safe transit passage for the sale of our oil." He added a warning. "If the United States takes the crazy measure of trying to prevent us from doing that," Zarif said, "then it should be prepared for the consequences." US security officials have expressed concern that Tehran could respond asymmetrically by targeting US facilities and personnel around the Middle East. Cyber response Henry Rome, an analyst with the Eurasia Group, said their view is that Iran isn't inclined to respond aggressively and instead is hoping to open some form of negotiations with the US or hold out and hope for a successor to Trump. "If we're wrong and the Iranians do choose to respond to these oil sanctions in an aggressive way, I think the number one threat is through cyber, whether it's taking down a Saudi oil refinery or go after banks in the Middle East, I think that's their most likely route," Rome said. "It provides them a degree of deniability, there's less pressure on President Trump to try to respond, so the risk of escalation is relatively lower." In the meantime, Iranians are expected to continue smuggling oil, possibly finding routes through Pakistan, Iraq and Afghanistan among other places. Rome said his group has "baked in 200,000 barrels a day of straight smuggling" -- ship to ship smuggling, as well as countries trying to conceal locations of tankers. "There will be Iranian crude reaching the market after May 2," he said. "It will just be in significantly smaller volumes." Compared to the Obama administration, "the Trump administration has taken off more Iranian barrels in a short amount of time with less international cooperation," said Rome. But he adds that "the manner in which they did that has been, and will continue to be, highly disruptive to international oil markets and to the bilateral relationships with Iran's main oil importers," he added. The potential disruption to oil markets may end up contributing to the difficulty of cutting Iran's exports. Production within the OPEC oil cartel has been disrupted by US sanctions on Venezuela, intensifying conflict inside Libya, and a Saudi decision to cut production, analysts said. Rosenberg said oil market realities are another reason it will be hard to eliminate Iranian oil exports. "I don't expect it will get to zero, there aren't enough supplies. ... There was not enough notice," said Rosenberg. "The Saudis don't have enough, that is not happening." Oil prices are an additional wild card, as a slew of factors are already driving domestic US gasoline prices higher -- a "red line" for Trump, the Eurasia Group notes -- just as Americans start the summer holiday driving season.  And then there's the question of whether importing countries will cooperate or try to defy Washington. "We expect South Korea and Japan to comply fully, to zero out," said Rome. "We expect China and India to more or less comply" -- but not entirely, Rome added. "The big difference is we expect both countries to continue importing small volumes of Iranian crude, about 300,000 barrels per day between the two of them," Rome said. "By and large, these countries are more complying than they are defying, but they still do not want to lose face on this and they're sufficiently incentivized to come up with ways to get around this." Both China and India have made substantial investments in Iran and the arrangement is that they get paid in oil, Rome said, predicting that both countries could argue that their continued acceptance of Iranian oil amounts to Tehran's repayment of a debt and not a contribution to Iran's coffers. Some countries have made clear they may resist. China and Turkey, Iran's biggest customers, reacted furiously to the announcement that the US would move to plug Iran's energy pipelines. Opposition "We do not accept unilateral sanctions and impositions on how we build our relationship with our neighbors," Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said in a tweet on April 22, when the US announced its decision. He added that it would undermine regional peace and stability and violated World Trade Organization regulations. Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Geng Shuang told reporters on April 22 that his country "opposes the unilateral sanctions and so-called 'long-arm jurisdictions' imposed by the US... Our cooperation with Iran is open, transparent, lawful and legitimate, thus it should be respected," he added. Rosenberg said that nevertheless, Beijing might seek quiet ways to go around the US, working with smaller companies that aren't connected to the US financial system. "Those biggest refiners and firms [who do business with Iran] are going to pull back significantly and smaller traders, smaller refiners, with less exposure to US law enforcement will step in and buy Iranian oil," she said, pointing to Chinese companies that have served similar functions in the past. "If they are designated or sanctioned as a practical matter it won't be as significant for them."  'Make Taiwan Great Again': Taiwanese president-hopeful Terry Gou meets Trump (CNN)Taiwanese businessman and presidential hopeful Terry Gou has met with US businessman and current President Donald Trump, and received this advice: Being president is a tough job. Gou, the 68-year-old founder of electronics manufacturing giant Foxconn, is Taiwan's richest man. He met with Trump in the White House in Washington on Wednesday afternoon, the White House confirmed Thursday. Following the meeting with Trump, Gou made a lengthy post on Facebook where he called Trump an "old friend," adding that they had met for 50 minutes. "President Trump sent me a signed souvenir -- and even gave me the pen -- and told me that being president was a tough job," Gou wrote. He attached a photo of his White House haul, as well as two hats bearing US and Taiwan flags with the phrase "Make America Great Again." Gou also posted a number of tourist photos from his Washington trip, showing him posing in the pink cap outside the White House and saluting in front of a statue of former US President Abraham Lincoln. "Although it wasn't my first (visit), this time my state of mind was different because I am a Taiwanese presidential candidate," said Gou, who has an estimated net worth of over $7 billion. Last month, Gou threw his hat in the ring for Taiwan's upcoming presidential race, saying the sea goddess Mazu had told him to "step forward and do something for the people of Taiwan," according to state media. As well as Mazu, Gou may have been inspired by another source: Trump. According to multiple media reports, the Foxconn chairman is rumored to have been inspired by Trump's 2016 run and began thinking that he too could be a head of state. Gou's company, Foxconn, is is the world's largest electronics manufacturer, providing parts for Apple, Huawei and others. The Taiwanese company is hugely involved in China, where it employs hundreds of thousands of people. In 2017, it pledged to build a plant in Wisconsin in return for $4 billion in state and local tax incentives, although those plans have since faced harsh criticism. In a statement, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders called Gou a "brilliant" business leader who was spending a lot of money in Wisconsin -- and would soon announce more investment there. "The President and Mr Gou did not discuss support for his campaign in Taiwan, he is just a great friend," Saunders said. In a statement Wednesday, Foxconn said that the two discussed the progress of the Wisconsin Valley Science and Technology Park project, among other matters. If Gou wins a primary election to be selected as Kuomintang Presidential candidate, he will "withdraw from daily operations" at Foxconn, according to the company. If selected, Gou would likely face off against Taiwan's incumbent President Tsai Ing-wen in the 2020 election, scheduled for January 11. CNN's James Griffiths contributed to this story. US sails two destroyers through Taiwan Strait (CNN)The US Navy sailed two destroyers, the USS Stethem and USS William P. Lawrence, through the Taiwan Strait on Sunday, referring to the operation as a "routine" transit. "The ships' transit through the Taiwan Strait demonstrates the US commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific," Cdr. Clay Doss, a spokesman for the Navy's Seventh Fleet told CNN in a statement. "The US Navy will continue to fly, sail and operate anywhere international law allows," he added. While Chinese vessels shadowed the US warships during the transit, officials said that all interactions were "safe and professional." The Trump administration has sought to make the Taiwan Strait transits more routine, with the operations now taking place on a monthly basis. Prior to July, the transits occurred only about once a year. The US also sailed two ships through the strait in March, February and January. The approximately 110-mile-wide strait, which separates the People's Republic of China and Taiwan, is seen as a potential geopolitical flashpoint should Beijing ever seek to take the island of Taiwan by force. Last month, Taiwan accused China of "reckless and provocative" action after two Chinese air force jets crossed a maritime border separating the island from the mainland on March 31. The island's military scrambled fighter planes after it said two Chinese J-11 fighter jets crossed the border within the waters of the Taiwan Strait, known as the median line. The incident triggered a 10-minute standoff between jets from the two sides. If confirmed as intentional, the Chinese incursion would be the first of its kind in years, said Bonnie Glaser, director of the China Power Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.  Hong Kong protesters hold biggest march in 5 years, political group says (CNN)Tens of thousands of Hong Kong residents Sunday protested a proposed law that would that would make it easier to extradite people to mainland China, in what one pro-democracy group has called the city's biggest public demonstration in years. Demosisto estimated 130,000 protesters marched through the city's streets -- but Hong Kong police put the figure at closer to 22,800. Either way, the turn out was among the largest since 2014, when Umbrella Movement protesters cut off access to key streets around the city, demanding democratic reforms and free elections. This weekend's protest was against a proposed law that would allow Hong Kong to extradite fugitives to territories where it doesn't have formal extradition deals, including mainland China, Taiwan and Macau. The government says the Fugitive Offenders and Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters Legislation (Amendment) Bill 2019 merely closes loopholes that have prevented officials from bringing criminals to justice. In a lengthy statement issued Sunday, the government referred to a murder case in Taiwan, where a 20-year-old Hong Kong woman was allegedly killed by her boyfriend while on holiday. Under its current laws, Hong Kong does not have the legal authority to respond to Taiwan's requests to extradite the suspect. The new bill would change that. "The Taiwan murder case has clearly shown that serious crimes can happen in any place and at any time ... Hence, we have to plug the loopholes in the current mechanisms as quickly as possible," the government statement said. It added that "all existing human rights and procedural safeguards provided for in the current legislation will be maintained under the case-based arrangements." Opponents say the bill could see democracy activists, journalists and foreign business owners surrendered to mainland China. Hong Kong is a semi-autonomous city, which operates under the principle of "one country, two systems." It has a separate legal system and political system to mainland China and allows citizens to enjoy freedoms not protected on the mainland. The American Chamber of Commerce, the Hong Kong Journalists Association and the Hong Kong Bar Association have criticized the bill, which still needs to go through a bills committee before it can be passed into law. The Hong Kong Journalists Association said in a statement that the amendment would "will not only threaten the safety of journalists but also have a chilling effect on the freedom of expression in Hong Kong." "This sword hanging over journalists will muzzle both the journalists and the whistleblowers, bringing an end to the limited freedom of speech that Hong Kong still enjoys," it said in a statement. Lam Wing-kee, a bookseller who claims he was kidnapped by Chinese agents in 2015, last Thursday left for Taiwan amid concerns that he could be extradited to mainland China, according to the South China Morning Post. Lam returned to Hong Kong in 2016 after spending several months in solitary confinement. He was one of five Hong Kong booksellers who disappeared only to later resurface in Chinese custody. All five men were involved with publisher Mighty Current and its shop Causeway Bay Books, which sold gossipy titles about China's elite. Sunday's protest follows the sentencing of other prominent Occupy leaders, who last week were handed sentences of up to 16 months in prison. Their cases, which were over a range of public nuisance offenses, dragged on for years, draining energy from the pro-democracy protest movement. Organizers of this weekend's protest have pointed to the relatively high turnout as proof that Hong Kong residents are still concerned about how the city is governed, and are sensitive to any perceived encroachment by Beijing on Hong Kong rights. Sunday's protest dwarfed an earlier demonstration against the extradition law in March. Organizers estimated that 12,000 took part in the March protest, while police said there were 5,200 at its peak.  The big winner from Trump's Iran oil boycott: Vladimir Putin David A. Andelman, executive director of The RedLines Project, is a contributor to CNN where his columns won the Deadline Club Award for Best Opinion Writing. Author of "A Shattered Peace: Versailles 1919 and the Price We Pay Today," and translator of "An Impossible Dream: Reagan, Gorbachev, and a World Without the Bomb," he was formerly a foreign correspondent for The New York Times and CBS News. Follow him on Twitter @DavidAndelman. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)The biggest winner from Donald Trump's clampdown on Iranian oil exports is Vladimir Putin and Russia. That much became clear even before Secretary State Mike Pompeo made the official announcement early Monday. Crude oil prices, already up 44% this year, jumped nearly 3% more.  On Monday, Pompeo announced that the United States would end sanctions waivers for countries that import Iranian oil. "Our goal has been to get countries to cease importing Iranian oil entirely," Pompeo said. "Last November, we granted exemptions from our sanctions to seven countries and to Taiwan. We did this to give our allies and partners [a chance] to wean themselves off of Iranian oil, and to assure a well-supplied oil market. Today I am announcing that we will no longer grant any exemptions. We're going to zero." It was all part of Trump's efforts to put the squeeze on Iran, halting its ability to fund terrorist operations and consistent with his move to torpedo Barack Obama's deal to end Iran's development of nuclear weapons. So now, unilaterally, the Trump administration declared that the US would no longer allow China, Japan, South Korea and five other countries to buy any oil from Iran. Within minutes after the move became known, oil prices began to spike—a boon for Russia, one of the world's largest oil suppliers. But not so good for a whole lot of other countries—including American motorists who'll be paying a lot more for gasoline this summer. China, a nation whose leaders Trump is courting hard for his much-needed trade pact, did not react well to his oil edict. With oil exports comprising some 60% of Russia's total merchandise exports and 30% of its GDP, every dollar increase in the price of oil translates immediately into a dramatic improvement in Russia's financial position. This cannot help but offset some of the impact of the sanctions that the United States and Western Europe continue to level on Russia as a result of the Kremlin's seizure of Crimea and its ongoing activities in Eastern Ukraine. In hard dollar terms, the impact is even more apparent. With Russia producing some 11 million barrels of oil a day, each dollar increase in the price per barrel of crude oil adds at least $4 billion to the Russian economy each year . Moreover, Russia ran a budget surplus last year that was close to 3% of its GDP, higher than forecast, as Russia's Economy Minister Maxim Oreshkin told the Financial Times in December. It was the first such annual budget surplus since 2011.  As it happens, oil prices are one of the few economic indicators that are effectively a zero-sum game. While the oil price increases already anticipated by today's American action may boost Russia's economy, they also add substantially to the burden on America's allies in Western Europe, who consume some 13 million barrels of oil per day.  Moreover, there are other real threats to the Europe's oil supplies, particularly from the ongoing unrest in Libya, just across the Mediterranean, which had been pumping some 1.2 million barrels a day before the latest unrest, much of it destined for Europe. There are fears that unrest could lead to cutbacks of as much as half that output, further raising oil prices—and again providing another healthy boost to the Russian economy.  At least Russia and China, a leading victim of Monday's Trump embargo action, have been preparing for this day for years. In January 2018, the second Russia-China oil pipeline came online, boosting Russia's capacity to satisfy rapidly expanding Chinese oil requirements—and more cheaply than with a long sea voyage in expensive super-tankers from Iran to the nearest Chinese oil port. But beyond all these short-term effects of Monday's decision to screw down the hold on Iran even tighter are other black swan impacts that can still be seen on the horizon. These include the ability of large multi-national companies, especially in the oil patch, to forecast accurately the supply-demand-price equations that figure deeply into their decisions to invest or their pricing of products that require large amounts of petroleum. Not to mention any sudden increase in gas prices at the pump as Americans head out for their summer holidays.  Finally, of course, there are any number of geopolitical implications of the United States again dictating the trajectory of the world oil market and the broader economics that are so deeply dependent on this path.    All these are issues that the President should have considered before embarking on this course and that may be far more difficult to undo than to implement.  Asia will feel the pain if US sanctions shut down Iran's oil exports Dubai (CNN Business)Asia's biggest economies are scrambling to find new sources of oil after the United States said it would no longer grant exemptions to sanctions on Iranian crude exports. The Trump administration reintroduced sanctions on Iran's oil last year but immediately granted waivers to China, Japan, India, South Korea and Taiwan, as well as Italy, Greece and Turkey. Those exemptions are set to expire May 2. China, the world's biggest importer of Iranian oil, and India, are among those most affected. Asia consumes more oil than any other region, accounting for more than 35% of global demand. Who will they turn to? Some countries that were granted waivers have already found alternative suppliers. Italy, Greece and Taiwan haven't loaded any Iranian barrels since November, according to the International Energy Agency, which cited data from Kpler, a company that tracks oil shipments. China, India and South Korea are still buying from Iran. India, for one, appears to have a plan to replace its lost Iranian oil. "There will be additional supplies from other major oil producing countries," Minister of Petroleum Dharmendra Pradhan tweeted on Tuesday. Some of those could come from America, or Iran's big rivals in OPEC. The Trump administration on Monday indicated that the United States, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates would make sure "global oil markets remain adequately supplied." But it gave no details. Saudi oil minister Khalid al-Falih said that the kingdom will coordinate with other producers "to ensure the availability of enough oil" and that "global oil markets are not knocked off balance." That may be easier said than done. Iran exported about 1.4 million barrels of crude a day in March and the United States wants to bring that down to zero. Iman Nasseri, managing director for the Middle East at consulting firm Facts Global Energy, estimates that Saudi Arabia and the UAE can replace up to a million barrels a day of lost Iranian crude. The United States could also help fill the void. US production increased by 1.6 million barrels a day in 2018, and is rising further this year. And the gap may turn out to be smaller than some have feared, Nasseri added. "Depending on how much Iran can manage [to sell] outside of waivers or smuggle into other
s
markets the disruption can be as low as 500 million barrels a day and as high as a million barrels a day," he said. Do they have to follow US sanctions? The US administration warned that all countries that continue to import Iranian oil will be subject to US sanctions. Not all reacted well to the threat. Beijing slammed the US administration's announcement, saying it "opposes the unilateral sanctions." South Korean officials told CNN that they have struggled to comply with US sanctions because the country's oil refineries are specifically setup to process crude oil from Iran. Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Twitter that "Turkey rejects unilateral sanctions and impositions on how to conduct relations with neighbors." Countries that don't abide by the requirement could face harsh consequences. "Economic sanctions from the US could damage their trade flows, ability to access global financial markets and ultimately their currencies and economies," said Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell. Earlier this month, Standard Chartered had to pay a hefty fine $1.1 billion to settle allegations that it repeatedly violated sanctions on Iran and other countries. Chinese telecoms group Huawei has been charged in the United States with violating sanctions on Iran. It pleaded not guilty last month. What now for oil markets? The United States says sanctions will continue until Iran ends its "pursuit of nuclear weapons." The crackdown is adding to mounting supply concerns in the oil market. Venezuela's oil shipments have been wiped out by US sanctions. Violence is rocking Libya, another OPEC producer. Replacing Iranian crude will leave little room for producers to respond to future supply shocks. "The problem is that they will end up having very little spare capacity left for any other emergency or any other crisis in the oil market on the supply side," said Nasseri of Facts Global Energy. The price of oil has already reacted to the threat of tighter supply. US oil prices climbed nearly 3% on Monday to $65.70 a barrel. That represents a spike of 54% since prices closed at $42.53 a barrel on Christmas Eve. Brent crude, the global benchmark, also surged nearly 3% on Monday and touched $74 for the first time since early November. Both made more gains on Tuesday. "While it is likely still far too early ... to predict oil trading back towards $100, US crude prices look set to attempt a potential target of $70 if concerns over tight supply in the global oil markets remain a major theme," said Lukman Otunuga, research analyst at FXTM in London. Even higher oil prices could weigh further on economic growth in China and India. "With many sectors dependent on energy prices feeling the impacts of higher oil, the domino effect will most likely compound the economic woes of Asian countries that are already experiencing a slowdown," added Otunuga.  Oil shoots above $65 on fears about Iran sanctions New York (CNN Business)US oil prices raced above $65 a barrel on Monday for the first time since Halloween after the White House pledged to deepen its crackdown on Iran. The Trump administration vowed to bring Iran's oil exports to "zero" by removing the waivers that previously allowed some countries to buy crude from the OPEC nation. The escalation adds to mounting supply concerns in the oil market. Venezuela's oil shipments have been wiped out by US sanctions. Violence is rocking Libya. And Saudi Arabia has slashed its output. "The market will be under pressure and the prices will definitely react upward," said Iman Nasseri, managing director for the Middle East at consulting firm Facts Global Energy. President Donald Trump promised in a tweet that "Saudi Arabia and others in OPEC will more than make up" the difference. The oil market, however, signaled skepticism. Oil is up 54% since Christmas Eve lows US oil prices climbed nearly 3% on Monday to $65.70 a barrel. That represents a spike of 54% since prices closed at $42.53 a barrel on Christmas Eve. Brent crude, the global benchmark, surged nearly 3% on Monday and touched $74 for the first time since early November. Gasoline prices, meanwhile, continued to climb. The national average hit $2.84 a gallon on Monday, up from $2.61 a month ago, according to AAA. "It's a bit of a conundrum," said Matt Smith, director of commodity research at ClipperData, an energy research firm. "We know President Trump wants to keep gasoline prices in check. But oil prices are gaining and that will only drag that retail gasoline price higher." Trump first announced sanctions on Iran a year ago. Oil prices initially shot higher due to fears about the loss of supply from Iran, which was then the world's fifth-biggest producer of crude. Saudi Arabia responded by ramping up production to all-time highs. However, the US administration, fearing an oil shock that would cripple the economy, granted waivers to China, India and six other nations. The softer-than-expected approach left oil markets oversupplied, contributing to last fall's bear market in crude. The White House announced on Monday that Trump decided he will not reissue the Iran waivers when they expire in early May. The move is aimed at blocking the Iranian regime from its No. 1 source of cash. "We're going to zero, across the board," US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said during a press conference. Iran's exports tumble Iran exported about 1.4 million barrels of crude a day in March, down by half from pre-sanctions levels, according to the International Energy Agency. And Iran's output is sitting at its lowest level in nearly six years, the IEA said. Some nations have already weaned themselves off Iran's oil. Italy, Greece and Taiwan haven't loaded any Iranian barrels since November, the IEA said, citing Kpler shipping data. However, China, Japan, Korea and Turkey have imported more oil from Iran than their waivers allowed them to, the IEA said. "It's hard to see the exports go to zero. But you may roughly lose about half of it," said Matt Sallee, portfolio manager at energy investment firm Tortoise. He said China is unlikely to completely cease imports from Iran. The good news for American drivers is that the United States is pumping more oil than ever before. In fact, America is now the world's leading oil producer. That domestic production, which is expected to keep rising, provides a cushion against the situations in Iran and Venezuela. "The United States is now a significant producer," Pompeo said on Monday. However, not all crude is created equally. US shale oil is much lighter than the heavy barrels knocked offline in Iran and Venezuela. US Gulf Coast refineries are configured to run on a healthy dose of heavy crude. A shortage of those heavy barrels would make it difficult for refiners to produce as much gasoline, diesel and jet fuel as America's economy requires. Saudis voice support The Trump administration announced on Monday that the United States, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are "committed to ensuring that global oil markets remain adequately supplied." "We have agreed to take timely action to assure that global demand is met," the White House said in a statement. However, no specifics were announced. Pompeo declined to go into details on any such agreement. Khalid al-Falih, Saudi Arabia's energy minister, said in a separate statement that the kingdom will coordinate with other oil producers "to ensure the availability of enough oil supplies for consumers and to ensure global oil markets are not knocked off balance." The end of the OPEC deal? If Saudi Arabia wants to help, it would have to reverse its own recent moves. Facing a collapse in oil prices, OPEC and its allies agreed in December to slash production. Saudi Arabia, OPEC's de facto leader, delivered the brunt of the output cuts. Nasseri, the analyst from Facts Global Energy, said that Saudi Arabia and the UAE could potentially replace up to 1 million barrels per day lost because of the crackdown on Iran. However, such a move would eat into the ability of Saudi Arabia and the UAE to respond to future supply shocks. "They will end up having very little spare capacity left for any other emergency or any other crisis in the oil market," Nasseri said. US imports from Venezuela have plunged to zero because of the sanctions Trump imposed earlier this year on PDVSA, the Latin American nation's state-owned oil company. OPEC and its allies will need to decide next steps when they meet in Vienna in June. "They will have a very tough OPEC meeting," Nasseri said. "That may be the end of the OPEC-plus agreement in its current format." -- CNN Business' Zahraa Alkhalisi contributed to this report. Taiwan's most beautiful places "The most beautiful scenery of Taiwan is its people." While this famous saying is often cited by travelers as a reason to love Taiwan, this 36,193-square-kilometer island also happens to have a staggeringly diverse wealth of stunning scenery and destinations, from cityscapes to natural wonders. "Taiwan has the highest density of high mountains in the world, leaving us adventurers with endless places to hike, camp, river trace and more," says Ryan Hevern, co-founder of Taiwan Adventure Outings. Taiwan's natural beauty Hevern, after living in Malaysian Borneo as a jungle guide, moved to Taiwan and started an eco-friendly outdoor tour company with co-founder Dustin Craft two years ago. "We aren't city people, so we spend our free time in Taiwan's outdoors," says Hevern. "In November 2016, we decided to deal with the weekly grind of living in a city by starting an outdoor adventure group. Each weekend we explored new hikes, new mountains, new rivers and so on." The company currently offers around 20 different outdoor routes with an emphasis on sustainability. "Even in the cities such as Taipei, adventure is a mere 20 minutes away. Outdoor adventures are endless. We love that about Taiwan," says Hevern. Central Mountain Range The 3,886-meter-tall Central Mountain Range is one of the five main mountain ranges in Taiwan and, according to Hevern, "offers the most spectacular views, with opportunities to see the 'Sea of Clouds,' at sunrise and sunset." Thai photographer Theerasak Saksritawee, who has traveled to Taiwan multiple times, agrees. "Hehuanshan (of the Central Mountain Range) is the most amazing nature in Taiwan, especially in May," he says. "You'll see the azalea flowers blossom on the top of the mountain. Wait for the sea of clouds and sunrise to appear in your photo frame." Theerasak drove around Taiwan for weeks taking travel photos. His resulting otherworldly travel album has impressed local media and netizens alike, with his images going viral in Taiwan. An eerily beautiful post-quake lake Shuiyang, a destination for hiking and camping, stands out from other Taiwan nature tours. Located between the Alishan National Forests and Sun Link Sea, the dreamy lake is a reminder of one of the island's most tragic disasters. "This little gem is a result of the devastating Jiji earthquake in 1999," says Hevern. "Coniferous trees collapsed, damming the river and creating a small lake. Now the sun bleached, dead trees stick straight out of the water to paint an incredible scene. There is nothing quite like it in Taiwan." Taiwan's stunning city views Unlike Hevern, Theerasak was first attracted to Taiwan by its city views in 2014. "I love Taipei 101; wherever you are you will see this building, I can take so many pictures with Taipei 101 in the background -- just find a new foreground around you," he says. One of the best places to view it is atop a mountain near the city. "Datunshan viewpoint is where you will see Taipei city from above," says Theerasak, adding that it's best to visit on a foggy day with a telephoto lens. But his favorite place to photograph is Chiang Kai Shek Memorial Hall, a monument in Taipei. "Chiang Kai Shek Memorial Hall is the most beautiful place in Taiwan. It's also easy to go there. In the morning you will see the soldiers with the Taiwan flag, birds, bicycles, people and the sunrise," he says. For more incredible Taiwan scenes, check out the above gallery. Xi Jinping is determined to end all poverty in China by 2020. Can he do it? Hong Kong (CNN)In the small village of Gaibao, locals are filming short videos of their unspoiled and idyllic countryside on the Kwai streaming app. One clip shows four young women laughing as they grab fat fish out of the rice fields with their hands. In another they don traditional outfits and stand next to an ox plowing a paddy field. "Do you all have a farm such as this?" the caption asks. Their short videos are a small part of a massive nationwide attempt to lift all of China's 1.4 billion people out of poverty by 2020 -- a goal which President Xi Jinping set in a speech in 2015. The Chinese government defines poverty as earning less than $416 (2,800 yuan) a year or around $1.10 a day -- a lower benchmark than the World Bank poverty line of $1.90 a day, or just under $700 a year. Beijing has dispatched about 775,000 party officials to drive the anti-poverty campaign. Many are going door-to-door to work out what the government can do to help. Those who fail in their missions to alleviate poverty could face career oblivion, according to state media. The idea to stream videos of the village came from Gaibao's chief poverty alleviation official, Wu Yusheng, and has helped the town, in the province of Guizhou, sell its organic produce online. Residents also receive virtual gifts from fans via the app, which they can exchange for cash. Wu, who arrived in the village in 2018, said he had already achieved his goal -- but it is unclear whether Xi will do the same. At worst, some experts fear the ruling Communist Party might just announce poverty has been eradicated, regardless of the reality, to avoid embarrassing Xi. "Local leaders are taking it extremely seriously, almost in a panicky way. Part of the problem is that they don't know really what to do, so they're kind of grasping at different solutions," said John Donaldson, a poverty expert and associate professor at Singapore Management University. "They're throwing everything at it." The campaign against poverty The dream of eradicating widespread poverty in China didn't begin with Xi. It dates back to the Communist Party's rise to power in 1949. "The reason for the existence of the Chinese Communist Party in the beginning is because of injustice and poverty among farmers," Donaldson said. Chairman Mao Zedong's economic experiments, however, actually set the country back, according to Steve Tsang, director of the China Institute at the University of London. "In 1949, Shanghai was still a richer city than Hong Kong. In 1949, any coastal province was richer and more developed than Taiwan. In 1979, Hong Kong and Taiwan were way, way ahead," Tsang said. Mao's disastrous Great Leap Forward, beginning in 1958, was ostensibly an attempt to transform a mainly agrarian society through industrialization and collectivization. Instead, it helped create a famine that cost tens of millions of lives and aggravated poverty across the country. Things began to change after Mao's death. In 1978, then-paramount leader Deng Xiaoping began liberalizing China's economy and one of his first reforms was to let struggling farmers sell excess produce to make a profit. China's efforts to combat poverty since then have been staggering. In 1990, there were more than 750 million people living in poverty across the nation, according to the World Bank -- over 60% of the population. Almost 30 years later in 2019, Beijing says that number has dropped to just 16.6 million. One of the Communist Party's main claims to power in recent years has been that it has lifted hundreds of millions out of poverty. Perhaps for that reason, Xi still isn't satisfied. Despite the growing wealth of China's major cities such as Shanghai or Beijing, parts of rural China live without electricity, fresh water and adequate food or clothing. In his 2015 speech, Xi said he was inspired to make poverty a priority by his experience working in the countryside in the 1960s when his father, a prominent party official, fell from favor during Mao's Cultural Revolution. "I toiled with the villagers at the time, with the aim to make life a bit better, but it was harder than reaching the sky in that year," he said. Roads, internet and jobs The government's plan is broadly divided into two strategies -- big national policies and small local interventions. At a national level, the policies revolve around infrastructure spending. Xi's administration is pouring billions of dollars into the problem, $19 billion in 2019 alone, which has been spent on a variety of projects and initiatives across the country. More than 200,000 kilometers (124,274 miles) of roads were built or renovated in 2018 and 94% of poor villages were connected to the internet, according to government figures. Dozens of state-owned enterprises have joined the campaign and poured more than $4 billion (30 billion yuan) into poverty relief programs as of early 2019, according to state media. Some of these big-ticket projects have sparked controversy. A number of provincial governments have been accused of trying to simply move millions of poor people to newly built urban accommodation to raise them out of poverty. Some older rural citizens have refused to go, while others have moved but then returned to their old homes. Maggie Lau, a professor at Hong Kong's Lingnan University, said such schemes aren't always pragmatic. "If they move to a higher-cost area, how can they afford those new living costs?" she asks. But to a large degree, the anti-poverty campaign is small-scale and has been left in the hands of local officials. "Every local official on a township level (one above a village) goes down to every poor household and tries to find out what's going on and why people are poor and how to apply resources to that," Donaldson said, describing his observations in Chinese villages. The solutions proposed vary wildly but often focus on encouraging villagers to lift themselves out of poverty by developing local industries, engaging in e-commerce and boosting rural tourism. While Donaldson said the effort expended was "amazing," problems emerged with government officials spending too much time just knocking on doors talking about poverty rather than tackling local problems. "The danger is that it will be a confused mess," he said. There has also been a lack of patience with poor villagers who fail to get with the program. In a report in February, Wu Weihua, a vice chairman of the national legislature, complained that some people just don't want to "get rich." "Some poor people even have the mindset of, 'You don't help, I don't move'," the report said. Corruption and pollution Failure is not tolerated -- and the government is watching where its money is being spent. In March 2018, a provincial governor was kicked out of the Communist Party, partly for his failure to address poverty in his jurisdiction. In October that year, inspections were carried out in provinces across central and western China to check that officials were following orders on poverty alleviation. The flood of government and company funds allocated to deal with the issue has also revived the ever-present threat of corruption. More than 170,000 individuals were disciplined in 2018 alone for misappropriation of poverty alleviation funds, according to the party's anti-graft agency Central Commission for Discipline Inspection. There have also been signs that the government's laser-like focus on poverty is impeding another of its main goals -- environmental conservation. A 2015 research paper found evidence that work by the government to eradicate poverty by boosting the economy was lowering air and water quality in affected regions. Heavily polluting industries were encouraged to set up shop, bringing jobs and prosperity at the expense of the environment. Or natural resources were exploited for financial gain. "Economic growth, poverty alleviation and ecological degradation do not appear to have de-coupled as required for long-term sustainable use of the environment, especially with regards to food security and access to clean water," the joint British and Chinese study said. Some critics also note that the government has focused mainly on poverty in the countryside rather than in cities, ignoring less severe but still-pressing urban hardship. 'Absolutely confident' Wu, the Guizhou village poverty alleviation chief, said he was "absolutely confident" the 2020 goal could be met. "The government is doing everything to achieve that. And on the micro level, the targeting of poverty population is really precise. It's not a problem if the entire society is making an effort," he said. But experts and international observers say China's poverty goals achieve the bare minimum -- more work will be needed in the cities and the countryside to ensure everyone enjoys a high quality of life. Qin Gao, director of Columbia University's China Center for Social Policy, said in a 2018 report that broader government support for healthcare and employment would be more useful than initiatives on an individual basis or e-commerce measures. "Only a combination of effective development measures and social policies and services can help China eradicate persisting rural poverty in the long run," she said. But Donaldson said that even if the target is met in 2020, he didn't believe the government would just abandon poverty as an issue. "Any kind of responsible government would be focused on how you help improve the living standards of people who may not be poor but are still struggling," he said. "I expect that to be on the agenda of the party forever."  Marriott's big bet on Asia: 300 new hotels, butlers on WeChat and 60-second check-in Hong Kong (CNN Business)Marriott has grand plans for Asia. The company is aiming to open two new hotels a week across the region this year alone as it looks to add 300 properties to its Asian portfolio by the end of 2020. The hotel chain is hoping to cash in on "the most exciting, dynamic market in the world," chief commercial officer Stephanie Linnartz told CNN Business in a recent interview. China — Marriott's (MAR) top international market and the world's biggest source of outbound tourists — will get more than half of its new hotels in the region, but the company is also planning to grow in India and Indonesia. To win more Chinese customers, the company has been adding services that appeal to them directly. At one of its newest hotels, the St. Regis in Hong Kong, guests can call butlers using China's most popular messaging app, WeChat, along with other platforms like Facebook's (FB) WhatsApp. Hotels in cities like London, New York and San Francisco — all popular destinations for Chinese visitors — are also trying to make them feel more at home. Chinese travelers there are being welcomed by Mandarin-speaking staff, and offered Chinese newspapers, instant noodles and congee, a popular breakfast porridge. Challenges in China It hasn't always been easy for the world's biggest hotel chain to do business in China. Last year, Marriott's website was blocked for a week by Chinese authorities after its app listed Hong Kong, Macau, Tibet and Taiwan as separate "countries." In December, hackers working for China's Ministry of State Security were accused of being behind a massive breach that exposed the data of up to 500 million customers of Marriott's Starwood Hotels. Linnartz said the company was determined to bounce back from both setbacks. "Those are challenges and we certainly regret that both of them happened," she said. The country labeling incident was "a mistake," Linnartz said, adding that the company was doing "everything possible" to prevent something like that happening again. Linnartz also stressed that Marriott would not speculate about "who was involved" in the data breach as it works with law enforcement around the world to investigate what happened. Internal issues aren't the only obstacle Marriott faces in China and the rest of Asia. OYO, India's top hotel chain, claims it's adding rooms faster than the world's top three hotel groups combined. China is OYO's second biggest market — and this month, the company expanded into Japan through a new joint venture with SoftBank (SFTBF), one of its big-name investors alongside Airbnb. "By 2023 we want to be the largest and most preferred hotel chain in the world," OYO told CNN Business recently. Linnartz was reluctant to comment on OYO, but added that she doesn't see the startup competing with Marriott "in the luxury space." Future of hotels Marriott is counting on innovation in China to help beat off competitors. Last summer, two of its hotels debuted facial recognition technology, allowing guests to check-in within 60 seconds using software from a joint venture with China's Alibaba (BABA). That partnership is "one of the things that I've been most excited about in the past couple of years," said Linnartz. The technology is still in the pilot stage, but Marriott hopes eventually to roll it out globally. It's the 92-year-old company's latest major effort to shake things up. Last year, it partnered with Amazon (AMZN) to let visitors use Echo devices to order room service or call the front desk. Linnartz, who describes keeping up with tech trends as a key challenge of her job, says she is constantly looking at how experiences like augmented reality could be brought into Marriott hotels. But while automation has changed the game, the human touch is still vital. "I think the key is about giving consumers choice," she said. "It still comes to the warm smile at your door with the coffee or whatever, right?"  How Chinese internet trolls go after Beijing's critics overseas Hong Kong (CNN Business)Arslan Hidayat was at work when the trolls attacked. "My phone was going 'bring, bring, bring,'" said the 31-year-old English teacher. "I was like, What the hell's going on?" A Facebook page he helps run which focuses on the Uyghur ethnic minority was being flooded by thousands of comments in a targeted attack by nationalist Chinese trolls. Australian-born Hidayat lives with his wife and children in Istanbul, Turkey, which is home to a large Uyghur diaspora. Many of them have claimed in recent months that relatives in China have been swept up by the Communist Party's crackdown on the largely Muslim minority group in the country's far-western region of Xinjiang. Hidayat has just such a story. He has not heard from his father-in-law, Adil Mijit, a popular comedian and entertainer, for over five months. The family fears he is among the more than one million Uyghurs believed to be detained in a vast system of "re-education camps" established in Xinjiang. China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not respond to questions about Adil Mijit's whereabouts. Hidayat has publicized this story, and many others like it, on a Facebook page, Talk to East Turkestan (TET), to thousands of followers. The English "East Turkestan" is a translation of a term used by some Uyghurs for the territory the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) refers to as Xinjiang. The CCP views the term "East Turkestan" as politically sensitive, and those who use it as separatists. Facebook (FB) is banned in China, as are Twitter (TWTR) and Reddit — accessing them requires jumping the Great Firewall, the country's vast censorship and surveillance apparatus. Despite this, these sites appear to be becoming a key battleground of Chinese influence,
as a growing army of internet trolls assemble on Chinese forums and in Facebook groups to attack voices they perceive to be hostile to Beijing's interests.  Patriotic posting The raid on Hidayat's page began at 8 p.m. in China. Photos and quotes at the ready, the patriots began posting. "We are Chinese! We reject Xinjiang's independence, and we will never stop!" read one message in English. "Xinjiang has been China's territory since ancient times," said another. (The region's relationship with Beijing has changed considerably over time, and in the modern era it has been the subject of particular dispute. In the last century, following the collapse of the Qing Dynasty, Uyghurs twice declared independence and created their own republics before the CCP took control of Xinjiang and declared it Chinese territory.) The comments flooded the Facebook pages of TET and the Munich-based World Uyghur Congress (WUC), an exile group that receives funding from the National Endowment for Democracy, a Washington-linked group. Photos posted alongside comments by the trolls showed smiling Uyghurs, many in ethnic dress, with captions in Chinese and English such as "We live very well" or "Xinjiang sheep and cattle fat, we live well every day." Other posts just quoted large blocks of text taken from speeches by Chinese President Xi Jinping or a government white paper on the situation in Xinjiang. The trolling raid lasted for two hours — according to timestamps on posts and an announcement by organizers — with dozens of comments posted per minute in the busiest period, according to page administrators, who could do little but flag the posts to Facebook via automated tools. "There was not much you could do in the middle of it except watch and try to alert people that it was happening," said Pete Irwin, a WUC researcher and an administrator of its Facebook page. "In the middle of it, comments were coming constantly." Locating those responsible for the raid was not hard. Many of the photos and comments referenced Diba, a popular online bulletin board akin to China's version of 4Chan, the notorious meme and troll factory. Photos featured Diba's logo, and many of those commenting changed their profile pictures to represent the forum. Football forum Diba is a sub-forum of a Reddit-style offshoot of Baidu (BIDU), China's biggest search engine. The forum began as a place for fans of footballer Li Yi to hang out, but has since evolved into a sprawling, generalist forum of more than 31 million users, according to stats on the official Diba page. That size has given Diba a huge influence on Chinese internet culture, experts say. Any large groups organizing inside China are often liable to censorship or deletion by the CCP. As Diba grew, it risked facing this type of control, but for the foresight of its moderators: In around 2014, according to a study of the forum, moderators worked to transform Diba into a pro-government forum, reducing some of its controversial content in favor of more nationalist topics and tighter standards. Diba began to go after Beijing's enemies overseas, adopting a trolling tactic called brigading. Known in Mandarin as baoba, or "bursting the board," in China, brigading is when members of one forum flood another with irrelevant or abusive posts with the aim of shutting the board down. The tactic is popular with trolls on 4Chan and Reddit. The latter has listed it as one of just three "prohibited behaviors." Diba's first major international raid — or "expedition," as participants referred to it — was in January 2016, after the election of Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen. Tsai's Democratic Progressive Party is traditionally supportive of Taiwanese independence, and her election came amid heightened tensions between China and Taiwan, which the Communists view as a renegade province, to be reclaimed by force if necessary. At 7 p.m. China time on January 20, thousands of comments against Taiwanese independence began flooding Tsai's Facebook page, as well as those of pro-Taiwanese news outlets Apple Daily and Sanlih News. While many posts followed organizers' guidance to be "positive" in their trolling, there were plenty of posts during the raid insulting Tsai and Taiwan, telling Taiwanese people they "belonged to China" and warning them not to "talk back to your father."  Uyghur expedition In many ways, according to admins and a study of the forum, the people behind the raid on the Facebook pages of Tsai Ing-wen and Hidayat are much like the Uyghur activist: tech savvy, highly-educated millennials. But when it comes to their beliefs and values they are diametrically opposed. Those involved in the raid believe the TET Facebook account is spreading lies, maligning China's reputation overseas and promoting separatism and even terrorism. And they are determined to stop it. But contrary to most stereotypes about internet trolls, they are committed to doing so without profanity or insults, for the most part. On Diba, Chinese social media site Weibo, and a handful of Facebook pages and groups, the instructions organizers posted for the raid included behavioral guidelines. Guidelines given to Diba users listed the forum's four key principles: be patriotic, don't curse, be reasonable and maintain truth above all else. Organizers appeared to be conscious that the raid would attract a global audience. "There will be media screenshots of the process, don't lose face for yourself and your country," they said. "We are only anti-extremist, not anti-religion or ethnicity, and everyone has their own freedom of belief. Please do not attack people or religion, and do not publish extreme rhetoric. Our purpose is national harmony and equality for all." Speaking via instant messenger, an admin of one of the Facebook groups coordinating the raid said it had two primary purposes. "The first one is to refute all the rumors about Xinjiang Uyghur autonomous region spread by the East Turkistan separatists," said the admin, who gave her name as Vicky. "The second one is we hope more people in the world can hear the voice from China and Chinese, not just hear us from their media." The admin said while she was based in China, others involved in the campaign were overseas Chinese. Responding to accusations from Hidayat and others that Diba members were paid to take part in the campaign, an admin said "this is a non-governmental group and participation in the campaign (was) purely voluntary." Even though most of the comments have since been deleted by page admins, Vicky felt it was a successful operation. "I think we got our foot in the door," she said. Growing sensitivity The Facebook raid comes amid what appears to be heightened concern within China over how the country is portrayed on Western social media. In China, Twitter users critical of the government have reportedly been visited by the police and ordered to delete posts or their entire accounts. Accounts of Chinese dissidents, and even non-political researchers, have gone silent without explanation. Reddit administrators have also noticed a surge in threads relating to topics critical of China being downvoted and those maligning it being buried, according to BuzzFeed News. The Cyberspace Administration of China did not respond to requests for comment for this article. In a statement, China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that "as a principle, we don't normally comment on social media activities and opinions." "Nowadays, the overall social situation of Xinjiang is stable and the momentum for economic development is good. All ethnic groups get along well," the foreign ministry said in its statement. "The sense of security and fulfillment from a stable society have improved greatly." A Facebook spokeswoman told CNN the company was working "in a variety of ways to find and disrupt this kind of abuse and to provide people with the tools that help people control the content they see." "In this case, we have removed content and accounts that violate our policies, and will continue to investigate and take action on any abusive behavior we find," she said. "I think it speaks to a paranoia or anxiety" over how the Xinjiang issue is reflecting on China, Irwin said of the recent raid on the WUC Facebook page. Hidayat agreed: "For them to go out of their way to attack in this manner, we felt very proud. It shows they're taking notice." But he was also worried that the content used in the campaign, such as quotes from allegedly happy Uyghurs, could undermine the claims made by his organization. "For those newbies just catching up to this issue ... the claims that we make and some of the stuff that is written looks far-fetched — people not being able to pray or fast — but it's true," he says. Even in Turkey, with its large community of Uyghurs there are people who "don't even know what East Turkestan and the Uyghurs are," he says. "But if Xinjiang was really (as) stable as they say it is then they wouldn't have gone out of their way to attack such a small page," Hidayat says. As of this publication, his page has fewer than 20,000 followers. In the wake of the attack, the TET Facebook page saw a spike in followers thanks to the extra media attention, adding around a thousand. "It's all positive from our side," he says. "I would like to thank the CCP for promoting our Facebook." James Griffiths is a Senior Producer for CNN International and author of "The Great Firewall of China: How to Build and Control an Alternative Version of the Internet." A goddess inspired a Taiwanese billionaire to follow Trump's example (CNN)Taiwan's richest man whose company is best known for building iPhones in China has thrown his hat into the island's upcoming Presidential race. Terry Gou, chairman of electronics manufacturing giant Foxconn, said Wednesday that the sea goddess Mazu had told him to "step forward and do something for the people of Taiwan," according to state media. Gou, who has an estimated net worth of $8 billion, will "withdraw from daily operations" at Foxconn, also known as Hon Hai Precision, if he wins a primary election to be selected as Kuomintang Presidential candidate, according to the company. Foxconn is the world's largest electronics manufacturer, providing parts for Apple, Huawei and others. The Taiwanese company is hugely involved in China, where it employs hundreds of thousands of people, and in 2017 pledged to build a plant in Wisconsin, in return for $4 billion in state and local tax incentives. If selected, Gou will likely face off against incumbent Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen in the 2020 election, scheduled for January 11. Tsai announced her intention to run in February this year, after bruising local election losses in 2018 saw her Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) hemorrhaging votes island-wide. The DPP has traditionally favored moves toward formalizing Taiwan's de facto independence from China. Since she took power in 2016, Tsai has attempted to diversify the island's economy from being too dependent on its large neighbor, while pushing back against what she views as Beijing's aggressive expansionism. In turn, Beijing has ramped up pressure on Taiwan, conducting large scale military drills around the island, including sailing the Liaoning aircraft carrier through the Taiwan Strait. Speaking in January, Chinese President Xi Jinping urged Taiwan to embrace "peaceful reunification" with China, saying that independence was a "dead end." Should he become president, Gou will likely be challenged with repairing this relationship, while maintaining Taiwan's traditionally strong ties with Washington. He will have a better claim than many candidates for being able to do so -- Foxconn has made billions through deep involvement in the Chinese economy, where many of its manufacturing plants are based, producing electronics for many American tech companies, most notably Apple. Gou himself also has strong ties to the United States, and has met US President Donald Trump, who has called him "a friend of mine" and "one of the most successful businessmen in the world." The People's Daily, a mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party, said on Wednesday that "Gou has a unique advantage in dealing with the relations between Taiwan and Mainland, and the US." Taiwan will elect its next President on January 11, 2020. Blessings from a goddess Gou announced his candidacy this week after visiting a temple in Taipei dedicated to the Taoist deity Mazu, guardian angel of seafarers. Wearing a bright red vest and a baseball cap showing the flag of the Republic of China -- the official name for Taiwan -- Gou said that Mazu had given her blessing to his candidacy. "If Mazu says that you should step up, it is not in order to make money or for personal enjoyment," Gou told reporters. "I tell you, I am like a godson to Mazu ... I will definitely respect and follow Mazu's will." Speaking later at KMT headquarters -- still wearing his cap -- Gou said he was "willing to participate in the primary elections." "I am not willing to accept being appointed (without being elected), I am definitely not willing to accept being appointed. If elected, I will represent the Kuomintang in the 2020 contest," he said. "If I am not elected, it means that I didn't try hard enough." In a statement, Foxconn said Gou would only run for president, "if the primary process - which is still being determined by party leadership - is open, transparent, and grounded." "When and if this determination is made, Mr. Gou will run in the KMT's primary to seek the party nomination for President," a spokeswoman said. As well as Mazu, Gou may have been inspired by another source: Trump. According to multiple media reports, the Foxconn chairman is rumored to have been inspired by Trump's 2016 run and began thinking that he too could be President. Margaret Lewis, a Taiwan expert at the Seton Hall University School of Law, compared Gou's candidacy to Trump's, and warned against underestimating the Taiwanese billionaire. "Even though he's obviously flawed in many ways as a candidate, populism can be powerful," she said. "It would be a mistake to treat his run too lightly." While Gou is definitely an outsider candidate -- according to state media, he hasn't been a KMT member since 2000 -- he's received backing from key party figures, with former leader and President of Taiwan, Ma Ying-jeou, saying he was "an ideal candidate." Lev Nachman, an expert on Taiwanese politics at the University of California, Irvine, said that Gou had one thing in particular that the KMT needs: Funding. "Terry Gou is one of the wealthiest businessmen in Taiwan and would essentially be able to finance his own campaign," he said. "That's a big deal for the KMT right now."  Support from Beijing? Despite once fighting a civil war with the Communist Party for rule over China -- before defeat forced the Republic of China government to retreat to Taiwan -- the KMT has in recent decades been the party of closer ties and engagement with Beijing. Former President Ma held historic talks with China's Xi in 2015, and his administration massively ramped up cross-straits economic activity, including a controversial trade deal that sparked mass protests known as the Sunflower Movement, which are credited with helping carry Tsai and her DPP to the presidency. Gou's connections to China are manifold. His company Foxconn employs hundreds of thousands of people in factories and manufacturing plants across China. "Gou is an integral player in the Chinese economy and becoming president would put him in a position to very closely tie Taiwan into China's economy in ways Tsai has fought against such as her New Southbound Policy which tried to extend Taiwan's trade beyond just China," Nachman said. Foxconn could also be a potential concern for voters, however. So far, the company has been tight-lipped over what a Gou run for president will exactly mean for his relations with the company he founded. A spokeswoman said that at present Gou remains chairman, and would "continue to provide strategic direction and guidance," as he seeks the KMT nomination. "That's the million dollar question. Who is Gou loyal to? Taiwan? Foxconn? Both? If the answer is Foxconn or both, that puts Taiwan in a bad position with Gou as president because Foxconn's success is tied to, coercively or not, the Chinese state," Nachman said. "In the same way Trump only marginally divested from his assets when he became president, I would not expect Gou to truly move away from his (company)," he added. "I would be greatly concerned with Gou's ability to separate his business from his political endeavors. Given Foxconn's position within the Chinese economy and Gou's political ideals, I'm not sure he even can or wants to." Lewis, the Seton Hall professor, also cautioned against assuming that Gou -- or any other KMT President -- would be able to magically fix relations with Beijing. "Ma Ying-jeou met with Xi Jinping, but I don't think it's fair to compare the Xi Jinping of 2015 with the Xi Jinping of 2019," she said. "He's been able to take on a more assertive position in recent years." Can he win? Gou has said repeatedly that he does not want to be simply anointed as KMT candidate, and will fight the party's primary. This could be a close run for the billionaire, with multiple other candidates and potential candidates, including Han Kuo-yu, who Gou himself previously said would be a "terrific" president. Han, a hugely popular KMT mayor of the southern city of Kaohsiung, has not officially announced his candidacy, but had been seen in recent weeks as frontrunner to be the party's eventual pick. He recently toured the US, meeting with lawmakers and business leaders, a traditional first step to declaring a run for president. "Han Kuo-yu is a very interesting, unusual person," Lewis said. "He has has not set forth clear policies, going with a much more flashy, 'I'm something different even if you don't know what that is' approach." As Kaohsiung mayor, Han has increased engagement with China, and would be expected to follow a similar path to Gou's, which Lewis described as a "general willingness to engage with China, particularly economically, and a belief that engagement can be confined to the economic." "Han does currently have an unmatched level of popularity in Taiwan right now," Nachman said. "Han has also shown, especially during his most recent trip to Hong Kong, that he, like Gou, is willing to build strong connections to the CCP and push for a more pro-unification agenda." With both Gou and Han favoring closer ties with China, Nachman said there was even a small possibility they could end up working together, on a ticket that could dramatically reshape politics both within the KMT and Taiwan at large. "That would be the most blatantly pro-unification team to ever be seriously considered for presidential leadership," he said. "It could very much lead to the end of the current status quo as we know it."  State Department approves renewal of $500 million Taiwan military training program Washington (CNN)The State Department has approved a possible deal with Taiwan to renew a $500 million training program in the US for Taiwanese F-16 pilots and maintenance crews. The proposed sale is bound to irritate Beijing, which has long protested US arms sales to Taiwan. "Today's notification is consistent with the Taiwan Relations Act and our support for Taiwan's ability to maintain a sufficient self-defense capability," a US State Department official told CNN. The training program is based at Luke Air Force Base in Arizona and goes back several years. The $500 million package covers the costs associated with the program including flight training, participation in approved training exercises, training munitions, supply and maintenance support, and spare and repair parts. The proposed sale is unrelated to Taiwan's reported plans to purchase new F-16 fighter jets from the US, according to the State Department official. Taiwan accused China of "reckless and provocative" action after two Chinese air force jets crossed a maritime border separating the island from the mainland on March 31. The island's military scrambled fighter planes after it said two Chinese J-11 fighter jets crossed the border within the waters of the Taiwan Strait, known as the median line. The incident triggered a 10-minute standoff between jets from the two sides. If confirmed as intentional, the Chinese incursion would be the first of its kind in years, said Bonnie Glaser, director of the China Power Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. CNN's Ben Westcott contributed to this story 30 years after Tiananmen massacre, Taiwan shows another way for China Margaret K. Lewis is a Professor of Law at Seton Hall University and recent Fulbright Senior Scholar at National Taiwan University. Jeffrey Wasserstrom is Chancellor's Professor of History at UC Irvine and coauthor of the updated third edition of "China in the 21st Century: What Everyone Needs to Know" (Oxford University Press, 2018). The opinions expressed in this commentary are their own. (CNN)Thirty years ago Monday, the most important Chinese mass movement of the last half-century began when Beijing students gathered to mourn Hu Yaobang, a reformist official. Soon, massive crowds calling for change were converging on the central plazas of dozens of Chinese cities. On May 20, the government imposed martial law in Beijing, whose Tiananmen Square was the site of the largest rallies. Two weeks later, on June 4, the movement ended after soldiers fired on unarmed civilians on the streets of the capital. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP), which has ruled the People's Republic of China (PRC) since its founding in 1949, has never allowed an official investigation into the killing. The massacre's death toll remains unknown, but at least several hundred civilians and perhaps ten times that were slain. Thanks in part to the iconic photo of the "Tank Man" standing up to the armed might of the CCP, June 4 is famous around the world, but discussion of what happened on 6/4 -- known as liusi in Chinese -- remains heavily censored in China and public mourning of the victims is forbidden. This concerted effort to blot out memory of a 30-year-old event is not unprecedented, and there are parallels in the handling of an earlier massacre across the Taiwan strait. This one, known as 2/28, took place in 1947 in Taipei, the largest city and capital of Taiwan, which is officially known as the Republic of China (ROC). For decades, the Nationalist Party (KMT) whose soldiers carried out the 2/28 massacre prevented official investigation of the bloodshed. The size of the death toll thus remains uncertain, though it is believed to be between several thousand and 25,000. In 1977, 30 years after 2/28, the KMT continued to ban all discussion of the event. Two governments, two massacres In 1977, Taiwan was still, like today's PRC, under one-party authoritarian rule. A key reason the memories of the 1947 massacre threatened the KMT in 1977 and memories of the 1989 massacre threaten the CCP now is that, in each killing, soldiers touted as benevolent defenders of the people behaved like brutal invaders. Today however, Taiwan is a democracy, and 2/28 is marked nationwide as Peace Memorial Day. What can we learn from the similarities between the massacres -- and that the KMT eventually apologized for 2/28? After Japan's 1945 surrender in World War II, Chiang Kai-shek's forces seized Taiwan and claimed it for the ROC, which then included much of the territory of today's PRC. Heavy-handed efforts to subdue the island by Chiang's KMT were, not surprisingly, met with resistance. Tensions flared on February 27, 1947, when police struck a widow who was selling cigarettes illegally. Big protests broke out. The next day KMT soldiers fired on crowds. Chiang's government denied that a massacre had occurred and stuck to this position long after Mao Zedong's forces drove the KMT from the Chinese mainland. On the 30th anniversary of the massacre, a public reckoning with the event seemed no more likely than a full investigation into Tiananmen does today. But that changed. Taiwan's past, China's future Even though only one of the massacres can be openly discussed in the place in which it occurred, there are three ways in which thinking about 2/28's legacy helps put that of 6/4 into perspective. First, by showing that the histories of authoritarian systems often take unexpected turns. Hopes for a long-term relaxation of repression in the PRC have proved chimerical. The CCP has been remarkably resilient. But Taiwan's case reminds us that even resilient objects break. The ROC was under martial law for decades. As late as 1979, the KMT used force to crush pro-democracy protesters in Kaohsiung, Taiwan's second biggest city. In the 1980s, however, democracy activists asserted themselves with a vigor that took many observers by surprise, and, in 1986, Chiang Ching-kuo, Chiang Kai-shek's son and successor, unexpectedly reversed his father's policies and allowed for formal establishment of an opposition party. Martial law eventually ended in 1987. Second, multiple forces can drive change. Political activists, long-time officials, and other actors played important roles in Taiwan's democratization. This suggests the need to avoid letting PRC President Xi Jinping's current emphasis on control engender myopia. Even when a confident strongman is on top, it is worth keeping an eye out for forces bubbling under the surface. Third, change is a long slog. It's worth remembering that the ROC did not have its first direct presidential election until 1996. And its first non-KMT President was not elected until 2000. Taiwan's history does not tell us what will happen in the PRC in the near future, but it does give us reason to hope that policies -- including how 6/4 is remembered and discussed -- can eventually change. The question that remains is how, and when?  Bungee cord to the eye causes man's iris to collapse (CNN)For an entire week, the man had pain in his left eye as well as blurred double vision. Finally, the 48-year-old, who requested anonymity, visited National Taiwan University Hospital in Taipei. A brief physical examination by Dr. Wei Li Chen and Dr. Chia-Chieh Hsiao, physicians and researchers in the hospital's Department of Ophthalmology, revealed left eyelid bruising and an artfully, if painfully, distorted left pupil. The eye's single opening, the pupil is an aperture through which light travels to reach the retina, a thin layer of tissue lining the back wall of the eye. The retina's photoreceptor cells convert light into signals sent to the back of the brain, where the visual cortex assembles the information and decides what is being seen. The patient sat behind a slit lamp so his doctors could perform a more thorough inspection of his injured left eye. The slit lamp, ubiquitous in eye doctor offices, is the clunky tool that requires you to rest your chin on one support and place your forehead against another while your uncomfortably close doctor peers through a microscope into your eyes. The slit lamp focuses a narrow band of light into the eyes, providing a magnified, three-dimensional view of both front and back of the "windows of the soul." This second examination of the patient's left eye revealed an iris "with the upper portion sagging downward, detached from the 9 o'clock position to the 3 o'clock position," Chen and Hsiao wrote in a case study on the man's injury, published Wednesday in the New England Journal of Medicine. A separation of the iris like this "can cause multiple pupils, leading to monocular double vision, blurry vision or photophobia" (an inability to tolerate light), they told CNN in an email. So what caused the rare injury? A rubber bungee cord that the man used to strap goods onto a motorcycle had struck him directly in the eye. The iris is "what we recognize as the colored part of the eye," explained Dr. Nicholas P. Bell, a professor of ophthalmology and visual science with McGovern Medical School at UTHealth in Houston. "Muscles in the iris can cause the pupil to open or close to control how much light gets into the eye under different ambient lighting conditions, similar to how you can adjust the aperture on a camera lens," said Bell, who did not treat this particular patient. In a dark room, the pupil opens wide to let in more light, and on a sunny day, the pupil will constrict to reduce the amount of incoming light. Though Chen and Hsiao saw no evidence of cataract, retinal injury or lens dislocation, the separation of the iris from the band of muscles that sits behind it easily accounted for the patient's blurred and double vision. This damage is known as traumatic iridodialysis. Bell said the condition is "relatively uncommon," though when it does occur, sports or work-related activities are often the cause. But there are others. "Bungee cord and airbag injuries seem to more frequently result in traumatic iridodialysis because of the focally concentrated strong force," Bell said, adding that airbags save lives, and fear of this extremely rare eye injury is no reason for avoiding them. Dr. J. Martin Heur, medical director of the USC Roski Eye Institute and associate professor of clinical ophthalmology at the Keck School of Medicine of USC, agreed that this injury is "very rare, but I've had a handful of people who've had this happen to them." "The trauma can be caused by anything that doesn't penetrate the eye" but still causes "the iris to tear at the root like that," said Heur, who was not involved in this patient's care. Balls such as golf balls are likely culprits, he said. To repair the damage, the Taiwanese patient underwent surgery that restored the pupil shape and improved his vision. Heur said this surgery, known as iridoplasty, is "usually done in an operating room" and "is relatively short: approximately 30 minutes." The procedure involves McCannel sutures, basically when a surgeon carefully sews the iris back to the inner wall of the eye.  Heur added that after an iridoplasty, a patient has to be careful for about a week or two about lifting heaving objects or getting water in the eye. Once healed, a patient needs to be monitored regularly for life, because glaucoma can develop even years after the injury. One year later, the Taiwan patient's iris remained attached with only "mild deformity," Chen and Hsiao said. Though there's no evidence of glaucoma so far, the patient now wears glasses to help him achieve 20/50 vision in the injured eye: He needs to be within 20 feet to see what people with healthy vision can spot at 50 feet. Dr. Jeffrey Goldberg, a professor and chair of ophthalmology at the Byers Eye Institute at Stanford University, said he saw a similarly severe injury "after a fisherman had a steel cable snap back into his eye." "Because some of the effects of eye trauma can be asymptomatic and appear four to six weeks later, it is important to get a complete eye exam with a professional eye care provider both immediately after severe trauma and a month or two later to be safe," said Goldberg, who did not treat the Taiwanese patient. Although this level of injury is rare, "less severe iridodialyses happen more often with moderate to severe eye trauma," he said. When small tears occur on the very edge of the iris, they can "lead to scarring on that area that subsequently blocks the drain of the eye, leading to higher eye pressure and glaucoma." Dr. Jeff Pettey, an assistant professor at the University of Utah's John A. Moran Eye Center, added BB guns and exercise bands to the list of items that can cause an injury like this: "A young flight attendant used exercise bands when she traveled, and her eye injury resulted in severe eye trauma and a blind eye." To avoid a similar injury, you can read the American Academy of Ophthalmology's website for eye safety tips, a list that includes using protective eyewear whenever playing sports, performing home maintenance ... or using bungee cords.  Executions worldwide are at a 10-year low. But in the US, they rose (CNN)The number of executions carried out across the world have reached a 10-year low, according to a new report from human rights organization Amnesty International. At least 690 executions were carried out in 20 countries in 2018, which was a 31% decrease from 2017's total of 993 executions or more. The report is a moment of cautious optimism for human rights advocates who believe the death penalty to be a cruel and inhumane practice. However, along with the general decrease of executions, there are also points of concern. Executions in the US rose for the second year in a row According to Amnesty International's report, 45 people were put to death in the United States in 2018. This is a slight increase from 2017, when 41 were executed. However, in general, the rise is actually small compared to the general downward trend. "There has been a slight increase in the number of executions [in the US], but it is still within historical lows," Chiara Sangiorgio, Amnesty International's Advisor on the Death Penalty, told CNN. "Over a 10-year-period, we have seen the number of both executions and death sentences decrease." The death penalty is rare in the US, but is still legal in most states The death penalty is legal in 30 US states, but that number doesn't paint an accurate picture of its actual prevalence. For instance, four US states in which the death penalty is legal are under statewide capital punishment moratoriums imposed by their respective governors. Furthermore, there are several states that recognize the death penalty, but haven't actually executed anyone in years. Sangiorgio says Amnesty International monitors legislative changes and leadership decisions to provide additional insight to their numbers. "We are seeing a few states resume executions after several years, so we find that concerning," Sangiorgio says. "But the trend in the US is positive. [In 2018], Washington became the 20th state to abolish the death penalty. And we recently saw a strong example of leadership coming from California, where [Governor Gavin Newsom] recently suspended the death penalty." Global and national trends account for other decreases Sangiorgio says the historically low number of executions in 2018 was due in part to a significant drop in sentences carried out in some of the world's leading executing countries. For instance, Iran has historically been one of the world's leading executing countries, and the number of executions there dropped by more than 50% in 2018. "There was a significant drop in executions for drug related offenses in Iran, because of a change in the laws from last year," Sangiorgio says. Other countries that lead the implementation of the death penalty, like Pakistan and Iraq, saw an ease in unsually high numbers from last year. And again, the numbers are only half the story. "There is reason for positive hopes, not only in the drop of executions, but in the number of countries that have decided to abolish the practice," Sangiorgio says. "Burkina Faso, Zambia and Malaysia all abolished or moved toward abolishing the death penalty this year." However, she points out that other countries like Japan, Singapore and Taiwan resumed executing people after a period of inactivity. When it comes to execution statistics, there is also a China-sized elephant in the room: Since 2009, Amnesty International hasn't counted the number of executions reported in China. "China has yet to publish any figures on the death penalty; however, available information indicates that each year, thousands of people are executed and sentenced to death," the report reads. Amnesty International's reporting also clarifies that many of their numbers are technically minimum estimates, which is why language like "at least 690 executions" is used .  UK lawmakers warn journalists and activists could be extradited to China under new law Hong Kong (CNN)The UK government has expressed concern over a new extradition law between Hong Kong and China, as British lawmakers warned the move could see pro-democracy activists, journalists, and foreign business owners surrendered to Chinese authorities. British Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt said he had "formally lodged our initial concerns" with the Hong Kong government, he said in a letter to Chris Patten, the city's last colonial governor. "We have made it clear to the Chinese and Hong Kong Special Administrative Regions that it is vital that Hong Kong enjoys, and is seen to enjoy, the full measure of its high degree of autonomy and rule of law as set out in the Joint Declaration and enshrined in the Basic Law. ... I can assure you that I, and my department, will continue to closely monitor developments in Hong Kong," Hunt said, according to a copy of the letter Patten shared with UK-based pressure group Hong Kong Watch. "It is clear that the relatively short formal consultation process has not been sufficient to capture the wide-ranging views on this important topic. While Hong Kong is a special administrative region of China, the city operates its own legal and political system, and citizens enjoy a number of freedoms not protected on the mainland. At present, Hong Kong does not have an extradition law with China, Taiwan or Macau, a situation officials in the city say has created loopholes preventing criminals from being brought to justice. Fear that the law will allow dissidents and pro-democracy activists to be bundled over the border to China has dogged the bill since it was first suggested, however. Business groups too have expressed concerns, prompting the government to remove nine economic crimes from the list of potentially extraditable offenses. The government also changed the minimum severity of offense from those carrying one year in prison to three. In a statement responding to those changes, the American Chamber of Commerce (AmCham) said members continued "to have serious concerns about the revised proposal." "Those concerns flow primarily from the fact that the new arrangements could be used for rendition from Hong Kong to a number of jurisdictions with criminal procedure systems very different from that of Hong Kong -- which provides strong protections for the legitimate rights of defendants -- without the opportunity for public and legislative scrutiny of the fairness of those systems and the specific safeguards that should be sought in cases originating from them," the AmCham statement said. "We strongly believe that the proposed arrangements will reduce the appeal of Hong Kong to international companies considering Hong Kong as a base for regional operations." Responding to reporter's questions about the law last month, Hong Kong Secretary for Security John Lee said the extradition law was part of the city's "international commitment to fight organized crime." He said the foreign business community should support the effort, which "will benefit (the) business environment." "If the accusation is that somebody may unwittingly become a political offender, then I have said repeatedly that the law at present, under our Fugitive Offenders Ordinance, has clearly stated that this will not be possible," Lee added. "There is a provision to say that no matter how you purport that offense to be, if it relates to political opinion, religion, nationality or ethnicity, then it will not be surrenderable." AmCham's statement is part of a growing chorus of condemnation of the law from multiple quarters. Critics of the law point to past situations where people have been snatched in Hong Kong and transported to China to face trial, including multiple booksellers and Chinese businessman Xiao Jianhua. Last week, the Hong Kong Journalists Association (HKJA) said the new law could enable the Chinese government to extradite reporters critical of Beijing, saying it would "not only threaten the safety of journalists but also have a chilling effect on the freedom of expression in Hong Kong." "Over the years, numerous journalists have been charged or harassed by mainland authorities with criminal allegations covered by the (law)," it said. "The (law) will make it possible for mainland authorities to get hold of journalists in Hong Kong (on) all kinds of unfounded charges. This sword hanging over journalists will muzzle both the journalists and the whistleblowers, bringing an end to the limited freedom of speech that Hong Kong still enjoys." The Hong Kong Bar Association has also criticized the new law, and questioned the government's assertion that there were loopholes in the city's current arrangements.  Federal prosecutors say woman illegally entered Trump's Mar-a-Lago club (CNN)Federal prosecutors have filed charges against a woman carrying Chinese passports who they accused of illegally entering President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago club in Florida in late March. Yujing Zhang claimed a friend had asked her to fly from Shanghai to the club to try to speak to a member of Trump's family about economic relations between the US and China, according to the complaint. Zhang initially gained access to the property on March 30 through an apparent miscommunication with members of Mar-a-Lago security. She told a US Secret Service agent at the entrance she was there to "go to the pool," and produced two passports, according to the complaint. Mar-a-Lago security subsequently admitted her. But staff quickly became suspicious when she didn't know where she wanted to go inside the property. She told a receptionist she was there to attend a non-existent "United Nations Chinese American Association" event that evening. After agents were alerted to Zhang's presence, she told them she was there to attend a "United Nations Friendship Event"between the United States and China, and produced what she claimed was an invitation to the event, the complaint says. But "agents were unable to read it as it was in Chinese." No such event was scheduled to take place on the property at that time. Trump was staying at Mar-a-Lago on that date, though he was not on the property at the time of Zhang's alleged visit. After she was detained, agents found she had multiple electronic devices including four cellphones, a laptop computer, an external "hard drive type" device and a thumb drive. A preliminary investigation found malicious malware on the thumb drive, prosecutors say. Late Tuesday, US Attorney's office spokeswoman Sarah Schall said the two passports Zhang was carrying were from the People's Republic of China. The complaint had indicated they were from the Republic of China, commonly known as Taiwan. "Information presented to the court indicates that the defendant is from the People's Republic of China, not Republic of China (Taiwan), and they were PRC passports," Schall said in an email. When asked about the incident Wednesday, Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman Geng Shuang said he had "no information" on Zhang's arrest. The complaint raises numerous questions about Zhang's purpose on the property. When agents interviewed her, she"claimed her Chinese friend 'Charles' told her to travel from Shanghai, China, to Palm Beach, Florida, to attend this event and attempt to speak with a member of the President's family about Chinese and American foreign economic relations," according to the complaint. Agents tried to find out more about "Charles," but Zhang claimed she had contact with him only through WeChat, a messaging service that is popular in China. "Due to a potential language barrier issue," the complaint says, Mar-a-Lago believed her to be a relative of a member. But during the interviews with agents, the complaint states, she "exhibited a detailed knowledge of, and ability to converse in and understand even subtle nuances of, the English language." "For example, as agents were attempting to obtain written consent for examination of electronic devices found in her possession, Zhang read the entire form in English out loud to agents," it says. Prosecutors in the Southern District of Florida charged her Monday with one count of making a false statement to a federal officer and one count of entering restricted property. Zhang made a brief initial appearance in Florida federal court Monday where she was advised of the charges against her and the possible penalties she faced. She is due back in court for a detention hearing on April 8. In a statement late Tuesday, the US Secret Service said Mar-a-Lago club management is responsible for deciding who is allowed access to the property, noting that "this access does not afford an individual proximity to the President or other Secret Service protectees." "While the Secret Service does not determine who is permitted to enter the club, our agents and officers conduct physical screenings to ensure no prohibited items are allowed onto the property," the statement said. It added that "with the exception of certain permanently protected facilities, such as the White House, the practice used at Mar-a-Lago is no different than that long-used at any other site temporarily visited by the President or other Secret Service protectees. Correction: This story has been updated to clarify Mar-a-Lago staff admitted Zhang to the property and that Zhang told Mar-a-Lago staff she was there to attend a United Nations Chinese American Association event, according to the criminal complaint. The complaint also states that Mar-a-Lago staff, not the Secret Service, believed Zhang was related to a club member. This story was also updated to correct the attribution of the country of the passports Zhang was carrying. CNN's Kate Sullivan and Ben Westcott contributed to this report. Apple cuts iPhone prices in China Hong Kong (CNN Business)The prices of iPhones in China are falling thanks to a tax cut that took effect Monday. Apple cut the prices on iPhones, iPads and other products on its official Chinese website. The cuts followed a three percentage-point drop in the rate of value-added (sales) tax that kicked in on April 1, according to state-run news agency Xinhua. Apple (AAPL) reduced the price of some products, such as the iPhone XS, by even more than the 3% tax cut. The latest 64GB iPhone XS now costs 8,199 yuan ($1,220), making it 500 yuan ($74), or 5.8%, cheaper for Chinese buyers. The iPhone XR dropped in price by 300 yuan ($45), or 4.6%. Apple (AAPL) declined to comment on the price changes. The company raised alarm bells in January when CEO Tim Cook warned investors that "more severe" economic conditions in China weighed on iPhone sales last year. Cook later told Reuters that Apple would lower iPhone prices in some markets outside the United States to offset the strong US dollar. But the iPhone had already been struggling in China, even before the country's economy showed signs of slowing and the weak Chinese yuan bumped up prices. Apple's smartphone sales in China have been declining for more than three years and plunged by 20% last quarter, according to market research firm IDC. The California company faces stiff competition from domestic rivals like Huawei, Oppo, Vivo and Xiaomi, which all offer cheaper, high-end smartphones tailored for the Chinese market. "Even with this price reduction, these iPhones are still more expensive than the competing ones from those such as Huawei," said Kiranjeet Kaur, an analyst with IDC. Still, China remains a key market for Apple, accounting for more than 15% of total sales. Revenue from the Greater China region — which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan — fell about 27% to $13.2 billion last quarter compared to the same period a year earlier.  Philippines protests hundreds of Chinese ships around disputed island Hong Kong (CNN)The Philippines government has filed a diplomatic protest with China over the presence of hundreds of Chinese vessels near a Philippines-administered island in the South China Sea. As many as 275 Chinese ships and boats have been spotted this year around Thitu island, also known as Pag-asa island in the Philippines, said Jason Ramon, chief of public affairs for the Philippine military's western command, to CNN Philippines. Armed forces spokesperson Edgard Arevalo cautioned that it was difficult to quantify how many ships are around the island at any one time, as Chinese vessels "come and go" from the area. "The information that we got is the more likely intention is to establish their presence in the area," he told CNN Philippines on Monday. Philippines presidential spokesperson Salvador Panelo said Manila had several questions for Beijing about the presence of so many vessels. "We will ask them first why. First, if they acknowledge such fact as determined by us. Number 2, ask them why they are doing it. Number 3, we will politely ask them not to ... not to do what they are doing," Panelo said, according to CNN Philippines. China's ambassador to the Philippines, Zhao Jianhua, said Beijing was trying to verify how many vessels were around Thitu. They might be "unarmed" fishing vessels, he said, according to CNN Philippines. Thitu island is in the disputed Spratlys chain, which includes Chinese-controlled atolls and reefs that Beijing has built up and developed with buildings, ports and runways over the past several years. Philippines opposition lawmaker Gary Alejano said Saturday that the Duterte administration should not let China establish any long-term presence around Thitu. "China is establishing a norm there which we cannot alter later on. Every day is a wasted opportunity to assert our sovereignty if we do not act now," he said, according to CNN Philippines. Besides the Philippines, China, Taiwan and Vietnam have also laid claim to Thitu. It has a civilian population of more than 100, as well as some military personnel, according to the Asian Maritime Transparency Initiative. The island is about 500 kilometers (310 miles) from Palawan, one of the main Philippine islands, which will be hosting exercises between the US and Philippine militaries in the next two weeks. Manila has been in an awkward dance between Beijing and Washington for years over the South China Sea. Under the previous government of Benigno Aquino, Manila won a landmark case against China at an international tribunal, which ruled that many of Beijing's territorial claims in the South China Sea were unlawful. However, the administration under current President Rodrigo Duterte has moved closer to Beijing, even as the president voiced concerns about China's territorial ambitions.  CNN 10 - April 2, 2019 April 2, 2019 Tensions between China and Taiwan are making headlines, and we're explaining their strained history today on CNN 10. We're also covering the controversial decision of a county in New York state to temporarily ban unvaccinated children from public spaces. And a day after April Fools' Day, we're covering some of the history and hoaxes of the event. TRANSCRIPT Click here to access the printable version of today's CNN 10 transcript. CNN 10 serves a growing audience interested in compact on-demand news broadcasts ideal for explanation seekers on the go or in the classroom. The show's priority is to identify stories of international significance and then clearly describe why they're making news, who is affected, and how the events fit into a complex, international society. Thank you for using CNN 10  Taiwan scrambles jets to confront Chinese fighters after rare incursion Hong Kong (CNN)Taiwan has accused China of "reckless and provocative" action, after two Chinese air force jets crossed a maritime border separating the island from the mainland. The island's military scrambled fighter planes after it said two Chinese J-11 fighter jets crossed the border within the waters of the Taiwan Strait, known as the median line, at about 11 a.m. on Sunday. "Two PLAAF J-11 jets violated the long-held tacit agreement by crossing the median line of the Taiwan Strait. It was an intentional, reckless and provocative action. We've informed regional partners and condemn China for such behavior," the Taiwan Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement If confirmed as intentional, the Chinese incursion would be the first of its kind in years, said Bonnie Glaser, director of the China Power Project at the center of Center for Strategic and International Studies. "Chinese jets flew across the center line frequently in 1999," Glaser said. "Since then, there have been occasions when PRC jets flew toward the center line and then veered off. They haven't crossed it in a long time. By some accounts 20 years." She said there was one instance in 2011 when Chinese planes accidentally crossed the line. According to local Taiwan media, the Sunday incident triggered a 10-minute standoff between jets from the two sides. China and Taiwan have been separately governed since the end of a brutal civil war in 1949. Beijing views the self-governed island as part of its territory. Weekend activities On Saturday, the Japanese Self-Defense Force announced it had also scrambled fighters after the Chinese air force flew between Japan's islands of Okinawa and Miyako. Japan's Self Defense Forces said in a statement the Chinese air force had sent four Xian H-6K long range bombers, one Shaanxi Y-8 electronic countermeasures aircraft, one Tupolev Tu-154 MD electronic intelligence plane and at least two fighter jets through international airspace between Japanese islands on Saturday. It isn't the first time China has flown planes over the Miyako Strait -- in March 2018, it conducted drills with bombers and fighter jets in the same area In the past 12-months China's military has ramped up the number of drills and exercises it conducts around Taiwan, including sailing the aircraft carrier Liaoning through the strait. In a speech in January, Chinese President Xi Jinping said Taiwan independence was a "dead end," warning he didn't rule out force as a method of reunification. Speaking on Wednesday, Taiwan President Tsai said her government had submitted a request to buy new F-16 fighters and M1 heavy tanks from the United States, which she said would "greatly enhance" the island's defense capabilities. The Chinese government has yet to respond to statements made by Japan or Taiwan, but in a press conference last Thursday, Ministry of Defense spokesman Wu Qian said potential US sales to Taiwan were "dangerous." "We will strive for peaceful reunification with utmost sincerity and greatest efforts. However ... we will take all necessary measure to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity and protect peace and stability across the strait," he said.  Houtong: Taiwan village saved by hundreds of adorable stray cats From the moment you arrive at Houtong Village in northern Taiwan, you'll have no trouble knowing who the real stars are. There's a cat-shaped bridge, pet food bowls on the side of the walkways, street signs with cat motifs, cat-themed cafes and, of course, furry feline friends roaming freely everywhere. The fall and rise of Houtong In the early 1900s, Houtong, in New Taipei City, was the biggest and most technologically advanced coal-mining site in Taiwan. It was a prosperous town with about 6,000 residents and workers, before the mine fell into disuse in 1990. As most young residents moved away for better opportunities, Houtong became a sleepy village with about 100 residents. But in 2010, Houtong's fame surged after a cat lover and photographer started blogging about the village's growing stray cat population. Houtong was transformed into a cat-lover mecca while also providing a source of income for local villagers. Many of the stray cats, now given affectionate nicknames, are taken care of by local villagers as well as a troop of volunteers. In addition to the village's many cute kitty-themed shops and cafes, the local government has also seized the opportunity to revamp Houtong and highlight its long history. An award-winning pedestrian cat bridge was built. Metal plates featuring tiny paw designs were embedded into streets. A cat information and education center opened in 2014, featuring elevated cat walkways on the façade of the building. A museum park dedicated to the town's former mining life opened in 2010, later hosting a cat lantern festival in 2012. It all appears to be paying off. The town now draws an estimated one million visitors every year. Controversies But Houtong, now under the spotlight, isn't completely purrfect. According to local reports, the town has become a magnet for those looking for a place to abandon their unwanted pets. During the most recent survey, the New Taipei City Government Animal Protection and Health Inspection Office estimated that the village is now home to about 286 cats -- 50 heads more than two years ago. With the constant patting and feeding from visitors, some also flagged concerns about the health of the furry residents. The department works with local residents and volunteers to vaccinate the cats and provide regular medical treatment. Signs have been erected around town advising visitors how to behave while also pleading pet owners to be responsible. For a quick peek inside Houtong, check out the above video by Black Buddha. Getting there Houtong is about an hour's train ride from Taipei Station. To reach Houtong Station, visitors can take a train on the Yilan Line towards Ruifang. New Zealand's special relationship with China is on the rocks. Can Jacinda Ardern's Beijing trip save it? Hong Kong (CNN)Six months after New Zealand Prime Minister John Key took office in 2008, he was dining in Beijing's Great Hall of the People with the Chinese Communist Party leadership. A free-trade agreement had been signed just months earlier and, in a jubilant mood, then-Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao told Key that Chinese-New Zealand relations were at their "best in history." A decade later, it has taken New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern nearly 18 months in office to visit China. As she prepares to finally touch down in Beijing on Sunday to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping, relations between the two nations are looking far more complicated. "New Zealand is committed to sustaining a constructive and comprehensive relationship with China," Ardern said on Monday when she announced the trip. But Jason Young, director of the New Zealand Contemporary China Research Center, said over the past few years more and more issues have come between the two countries. "Some of those issues are due to how China itself has changed," he said. Growing tensions The China-New Zealand relationship is one that Ardern's predecessors have taken care to foster. Key visited the country six times during his eight years as leader. Under Prime Minister Helen Clark, New Zealand in 2008 became the first developed country to sign a free-trade agreement with China. Today, China is New Zealand's largest trading partner. Two-way trade between the countries was valued at more than $19 billion (28 billion New Zealand dollars) in 2018, according to New Zealand Foreign Affairs and Trade. China is also New Zealand's second-largest tourism market and largest source of international students. However Wellington's ties to Beijing have raised alarm bells with the United States, New Zealand's longtime ally. Along with Washington, New Zealand is a member of the exclusive intelligence sharing community known as "Five Eyes," which also consists of the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. In an extraordinary statement to the US-China Economic and Security Review Commission in April 2018, former US government analyst Peter Mattis said New Zealand's membership should be reviewed given its relationship with Beijing. "Australia and New Zealand both face substantial problems with interference by the Chinese Communist Party. In both cases, the CCP has gotten very close to or inside the political core, if you will, of both countries," Mattis told the commission. Juggling the relationship with the US and China has become increasingly difficult for New Zealand, with relations between the two giants souring amid US President Donald Trump's escalating trade war. Tensions with Beijing reached a new level in 2018 when New Zealand's Government Communications Security Bureau blocked Chinese technology company Huawei from providing 5G technology to one of the country's major telecommunication companies, Spark. The US has been putting pressure on its allies and diplomatic partners to ditch Huawei over security concerns, a move which has been regularly condemned by Beijing. Speaking to CNN in February, Andrew Campbell, a spokesman for Ardern, said the relationship had suffered some "irritation ... because of the GCSB's decision regarding Huawei." When asked whether Huawei would be on the agenda this weekend, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang evaded the question. Ardern on the back foot In recent months, Ardern has found herself under greater pressure from opposition politicians and critics to defend the strength of New Zealand's relationship with China. In February, Ardern was forced to deny that China was deliberately dragging out the visa process for New Zealander diplomats and postponing trips by officials to Beijing. The same month, local media reported an Air New Zealand flight to Shanghai was mysteriously forced to turn back to Auckland on discovering that its paperwork referred to the disputed island of Taiwan. At the time, Ardern denied it was a "relationship" issue with China, saying instead it was an administrative error. But the postponement of a major Chinese-New Zealand tourism event that same month -- which Ardern put down to a scheduling issue -- also added to speculation of a rift. Ardern's trip also comes at a sensitive time for New Zealand, just two weeks after the terrorist attack against two mosques in Christchurch in which 50 people died. She even said she would be cutting her trip to China short, as it didn't seem "appropriate" to be overseas at such a time. Following global praise for her handling of the tragedy, the New Zealand leader has come under pressure from human rights group to raise the issue of China's crackdown on Uyghur Muslims with Xi. Up to two million Uyghurs have reportedly been detained in detention centers in the western region of Xinjiang, according to US government reports. "Given I've raised it before, that should give you an indication," she said when asked by reporters this week. Prior to her trip, a spokesman for the Prime Minister denied again that she was concerned about the relationship with China worsening under her leadership. "China is one of our most important and far-reaching relationships. Our relationship is mature and resilient," the spokesman said. China researcher Young agreed with the official line. "I think if the relationship really was deteriorating in that way, then it would be far clearer. I think China would be a lot more blunt in the message if it was wanting to send a message," he said. Wider strains Increasingly, the Pacific -- a region where New Zealand has long been a significant player -- is shaping up to be a new battleground for influence. China has promised billions of dollars of aid and support in the region and, if it follows through, could overtake Australia as the biggest donor to the Pacific nations. New Zealand has also been ramping up spending. Last year, the government announced it would boost aid in the region by 714 million New Zealand dollars ($484 million) as part of its "Pacific Reset" strategy -- a move commentators said was at least partly driven by China's growing influence in the area. "Our eyes are wide open to New Zealand's decreasing influence in the Pacific and we are committed to resetting our approach to working with the Pacific," Deputy Prime Minister Winston Peters said in June last year. Despite the numerous points of friction, Stephen Jacobi, the executive director of the New Zealand China Council, isn't panicking. Instead, Jacobi said, the biggest fear is that tiny New Zealand becomes irrelevant. "The reality is we are a small country and the Chinese don't get up every day thinking about how they can do nice things for New Zealand," he said. "That means we need to be careful in the way we do things -- but we are never going to agree on everything with China."  Taiwan wants to buy advanced jets and tanks from the US (CNN)Taiwan wants to buy advanced new weaponry from the United States, the island's President Tsai Ing-wen said Wednesday. Speaking during a visit to Hawaii, Tsai said requests had been submitted to buy new F-16 fighters and M1 tanks. The move comes after the US Defense Intelligence Agency warned in January that China had rapidly modernized its military to improve its ability to fight regional conflicts over places like Taiwan, which Beijing regards as part of its sovereign territory. "Beijing's longstanding interest to eventually compel Taiwan's reunification with the mainland and deter any attempt by Taiwan to declare independence has served as the primary driver for China's military modernization," the DIA said in a report. Tsai said the weaponry she had requested from Washington would "greatly enhance our land and air capabilities, strengthen military morale and show to the world the US commitment to Taiwan's defense." In response, China's Defense Ministry said Beijing was "firmly opposed to US arms sales to Taiwan and US military contact with Taiwan." "The Taiwan issue belongs to China's internal affairs, concerns China's core interest and the national bond of the Chinese people -- it allows no outside interference," spokesman Wu Qian said. "Such dangerous moves aren't in the interest of either side." 'Aggressive approach' Cross-strait tensions have been on the rise in recent years, as Beijing attempts to pressure Taiwan over what it fears is growing support for independence on the self-ruled island. Taiwan has been de facto independent from mainland China since the end of the country's civil war in 1949 when the losing nationalist government fled to Taipei. China's Communist Party has always maintained that Taiwan is part of its territory and vowed to pursue reunification, vacillating between building economic and social ties with the island and threatening it militarily. In her New Year's address, Tsai called on Beijing to "face the reality of the existence of the Republic of China," referring to the island by its official name. She also urged Beijing to "respect the commitment of the 23 million people of Taiwan to freedom and democracy." The following day, Xi called Taiwan independence "a dead end" and encouraged the island to follow the "one country, two systems" model adopted in Hong Kong when it moved from British to Chinese control in 1997. Tsai said earlier this week that Taiwan "absolutely will not accept the 'one country, two systems' model." She took a forceful tone Wednesday, saying Taipei would take an "aggressive approach to counteract the Chinese government's infiltration of our society and economy, as well as their interference in our domestic affairs." "They have continued to undermine our democratic institutions, heighten military tensions and degrade our international space. This has led to growing distrust by the people of Taiwan, posing an underlying challenge to the future of cross-strait relations," she said. "China's actions have underscored the need for Taiwan to increase our self-defense and deterrence capabilities." CNN's Sarah Faidell contributed reporting. US sails two ships through Taiwan Strait ahead of trade talks in Beijing (CNN)The United States sailed two ships through the Taiwan Strait, Sunday, in an operation that comes as top officials from the Trump administration prepare to travel to Beijing for high-level trade talks. The US Navy destroyer, the USS Curtis Wilbur, and the US Coast Guard cutter, USCGC Bertholf, "conducted a routine Taiwan Strait transit March 24-25 (local time) in accordance with international law," the Navy's Seventh fleet said in a statement. "The ships' transit through the Taiwan Strait demonstrates the US commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific," Cdr. Clay Doss, a spokesman for the Navy's Seventh Fleet told CNN in a statement. The US also sailed two ships through the strait in February and January. The Trump administration has sought to make the Taiwan Strait transits more routine, with the operations now taking place on a monthly basis. Prior to July, the transits occurred only about once a year. The approximately 110-mile-wide strait, which separates the People's Republic of China and Taiwan, is seen as a potential geopolitical flashpoint should Beijing ever seek to take the island of Taiwan by force. Beijing continues to lay claim to Taiwan, a self-governed, democratic island that China views as a breakaway province. The two have been separated since the end of a bloody civil war in 1949. While the strait constitutes international waters, China is thought to be very sensitive about the presence of US military forces there. In an exclusive interview with CNN last month, Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen said the military threat posed by China was growing "every day" in line with a more assertive foreign policy under its President Xi Jinping. While the US does not formally recognize Taiwan as an independent country it does maintain close relations with the island, a relationship defined by the Taiwan Relations act which was signed into law by President Jimmy Carter in April of 1979. The act says that "the United States will make available to Taiwan such defense articles and defense services in such quantity as may be necessary to enable Taiwan to maintain a sufficient self-defense capabilities," and the US has sold Taiwan a series of arms packages over the years, sales that are strongly protested by Beijing. Trump administration officials have hinted that additional arms sales to Taiwan could soon take place. Peter Navarro wrote in an op-ed in the New York Times last week that, "Taiwan may soon buy 108 Abrams tanks" and other officials have said that Taiwan could soon announce plans to purchase F-16 fighter jets. Observers see both sets of military equipment as likely to anger Beijing. The transit also comes the day after the White House announced that US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin would travel to China in an effort to resolve a long running trade dispute. "Principal-level meetings starting on March 28 to continue negotiations aimed at improving the trade relationship between the United States and China," White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement Saturday.  Asian airlines named the cleanest in the world in Skytrax survey Ever wonder how clean the airline seat you're sitting in is as you travel? A new survey has dished the dirt on which carriers offer the most pristine experiences for fliers. Japan's ANA All Nippon Airways was named the cleanest airline in the world, as part of the Skytrax World Airline Awards 2018. The Japanese carrier claimed the top spot ahead of Taiwan's EVA Air and South Korea's Asiana Airlines in a top 30 list dominated by Asian companies. Passengers were asked to rate the standard and quality of aircraft cabins for a global survey conducted by UK-based aviation industry reviewer Skytrax. Seat areas, tables, carpets, cabin panels and washrooms are all part of the overall score. Singapore Airlines, Japan Airlines, Cathay Pacific Airways, Qatar Airways, Swiss International Air Lines, Hainan Airlines and Lufthansa make up the rest of the top 10. Top-rated airlines for cleanliness by continent included South African Airways in Africa, Air New Zealand in Australia/Pacific, Air Canada in North America, Azul Airlines in South America and Swiss International Airlines in Europe. Cleanliness is a real concern for air travelers, with airports and planes seen as potential breeding grounds for bacteria. In 2015, website Travelmath.com sent a microbiologist to take 26 samples from five US airports and four flights by two major carriers -- although it didn't specify which ones. According to the lab results, the airplane tray table was the dirtiest of all the locations and surfaces they tested. Tested tray tables were found to have an average of 2,155 colony-forming units (CFUs) per square inch. "Since this could provide bacteria direct transmission to your mouth, a clear takeaway from this is to eliminate any direct contact your food has with the tray table," said Travelmath's report on the findings. The award for the cleanest airline is one of a number of gongs handed out by Skytrax each year. The World Airline Awards have been running since 2001 and are seen as the aviation industry's equivalent of the Oscars. Singapore Airlines won the top award for Airline of the Year at a glitzy ceremony in London in December 2018. Qatar Airways was knocked into second place after winning in 2017, while ANA All Nippon Airways came in third. Skytrax top 20 cleanest airlines in 2018 1. ANA All Nippon Airways (Japan) 2. EVA Air (Taiwan) 3. Asiana Airlines (South Korea) 4. Singapore Airlines (Singapore) 5. Japan Airlines (Japan) 6. Cathay Pacific Airlines (Hong Kong) 7. Qatar Airways (Qatar) 8. Swiss International Air Lines (Switzerland) 9. Hainan Airlines (China) 10. Lufthansa (Germany) 11. Korean Air (South Korea) 12. Cathay Dragon (Hong Kong) 13. Austrian Airlines (Austria) 14. China Airlines (Taiwan) 15. Thai Airways (Thailand) 16. Garuda Indonesia (Indonesia) 17. China Southern Airlines (China) 18. Bangkok Airways (Thailand) 19. Emirates (United Arab Emirates) 20. Air New Zealand (New Zealand) CNN's Barry Neild and Karla Cripps contributed to this report. What warmer oceans mean for the planet (CNN)Our oceans are much warmer than we previously thought, according to a new study. They are also heating up faster than was believed, driven by climate change caused by humans. The study, published this week in the journal Science, showed that the world's oceans have got much warmer since the 1960s. Its authors said 2018 would be the warmest year on record for oceans. Read more on the study But what happens when the oceans get warmer, and what does it mean for us? Rising sea levels When water heats up, it takes up more space. That means as oceans warm, sea levels rise. The study says this effect alone could make sea levels rise 30cm (12 inches) by the end of the century. "That doesn't sound like much, but there are many large cities around the world, much built on reclaimed land, that are not more than 30cm above sea level," says Stephen Simpson, associate professor in marine biology and global change at the University of Exeter, in the UK. "Millions and millions of people would be displaced." But on top of that, warming oceans are causing polar ice sheets to melt faster, which will make sea levels rise even more. Read: 15 facts about sea level rise The combination of melting ice and expanding water could cause sea levels to rise by up to a meter by 2100. Hundreds of millions of people could be forced to leave their homes. Rising sea levels are already causing more flooding in the US, and within the next 30 years, more than 300,000 US homes could be flooded every other week, according to research from the Union of Concerned Scientists. Extreme weather gets more extreme Warmer oceans make tropical storms more intense and longer lasting. Hurricane Harvey, which brought more than 1.5 meters (60 inches) of rain over four days in late August 2017, was made worse by unusually warm ocean temperatures. For coastal areas already struggling with rising seas, those storms will bring even more flooding. Read: Yes, climate change made Harvey and Irma worse Warming temperatures also mean changing rainfall patterns. "We'll probably be seeing redistributing of water vapor in the atmosphere," says Brad Linsley, research professor Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. "Higher temperatures lead to more evaporation, so parts of the earth will get wetter and parts will get drier." Ocean life under threat Coral reefs are especially sensitive to warmer seas. Between 2016 and 2017, half the corals at the Great Barrier Reef were killed by two ocean heat waves. Almost three-quarters of the world's coral reefs were affected by those heat waves and experts say warmer oceans mean these sorts of die-offs will become much more common. Another problem for sea life is that increased flooding causes more nutrients to be washed into the sea. This leads to plankton blooms and ultimately causes some parts of the sea to be starved of oxygen, making it hard for fish to live there. Warm oceans hold less oxygen, which makes the problem worse. Simpson says some areas of Japan, Taiwan and the Baltic Sea are seeing dramatic die-offs of fish because of low oxygen. Food security Fish species respond to warmer oceans by migrating to cooler areas, says Simpson. But the waters in some parts of the world are getting too warm for any fish -- and that could lead to food shortages in those areas. "There is a severe food security risk in the tropics," says Simpson. "No species are already activated to temperatures warmer than the tropics, so you could see a real crash in food fish populations. And these are places where coastal nations often have no other protein in the diet other than the fish from coral reefs." Melting sea ice Warmer seas are causing sea ice to melt. Sea ice floats on the ocean surface, so when it melts it doesn't affect sea levels. But it means there's less sea ice to reflect heat from the sun back into space, which means the planet gets warmer. It's bad news for animals that depend on sea ice to survive -- including polar bears. But it's also a problem for some Arctic communities. Read: Polar bears will struggle to survive if climate change continues "The Inuit living in Canada, for example, is a culture based on sea ice," says Arnaud Czaja, a reader in physical oceanography at Imperial College London. "They get their food by hunting seals and polar bears from sea ice, or fishing from sea ice. When the sea ice is disappearing that's not possible, so the whole culture is being lost." Is there any good news? While scientists say the new paper shows an alarming rate of increase in ocean temperatures, Simpson sees one chink of light. "The only positive is we now have a better understanding of the relationship between human emissions and ocean warming," he says. "That gives stronger evidence as to why controlling emissions is so important for our generation -- and the next."  Jon Huntsman Fast Facts (CNN)Here's a look at the life of Jon Huntsman, US ambassador to Russia, former Utah Governor and 2012 Republican Presidential Candidate. Personal:

Birth date: March 26, 1960 Birth place: Palo Alto, California Birth name: Jon Meade Huntsman Jr. Father: Jon Meade Huntsman Sr., billionaire chemical magnate Mother: Karen (Haight) Huntsman Marriage: Mary Kaye Cooper (1983-present) Children: Asha Bharati, adopted from India; Gracie Mei, adopted from China; William, Jon III, Elizabeth, Abigail and Mary Anne Education: Attended University of Utah, 1978-1980; University of Pennsylvania, B.A. in Political Science, 1987 Religion: Mormon Other Facts:

Dropped out of high school in his senior year to play piano with local bands. The University of Utah, at the time, allowed completion of high school coursework after admission. Served a two-year Mormon mission in Taiwan. Speaks fluent Mandarin Chinese. Worked as legislative intern for Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT). His father owned the company that invented the McDonald's Big Mac clamshell box. The family chemical business, Huntsman Corp., is a global enterprise with subsidiaries in Asia, Africa, Europe, and North and South America. Huntsman has served on the boards of Caterpillar Inc., Ford Motor Co., Chevron, the US Naval Academy Foundation, Hilton Worldwide and the National Committee on US-China Relations. Timeline:

1982-1983 - White House staff assistant to President Ronald Reagan. 1983-1989 - Executive at Huntsman Corp. 1989-1990 - Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Trade Development Bureau of the Commerce Department. 1990-1991 - Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for East Asia and the Pacific. 1992-1993 - US Ambassador to Singapore. 1995-2001 - President of Huntsman Cancer Foundation. 2001-2003 - Deputy US Trade Representative. 2001 - Divests of most personal stock upon becoming trade representative, including that held by his wife and held in the trust for his children. 2003-2004 - Chairman and CEO of Huntsman Family Holdings Co. 2004 - Places personal assets, 1.5% of Huntsman Family Holdings Co. in blind trust during gubernatorial campaign. 2005-2009 - 16th Governor of Utah, resigns in 2009 to become Ambassador to China. 2005 - Divests all personal holdings in Huntsman Corp. July 2006 - Endorses Senator John McCain (R-AZ) in the 2008 presidential race. 2008 - Serves as national co-chairman of McCain's 2008 presidential campaign. August 7, 2009 - Huntsman is confirmed by the US Senate as US ambassador to China. August 11, 2009-April 30, 2011 - Ambassador to China. January 2011 - Delivers letter of resignation to President Barack Obama, stating his intention to step down as ambassador on April 30, 2011. June 21, 2011 - Announces candidacy for 2012 GOP nomination for president at Liberty State Park in Jersey City, New Jersey, the same place Ronald Reagan launched his campaign in 1980. October 18, 2011 - Boycotts the CNN/Western Republican Presidential Debate out of deference to New Hampshire, which is locked in a political scheduling fight with Nevada. January 16, 2012 - Withdraws from the Republican presidential race and endorses former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. January 26, 2012 - Huntsman is named chairman of the Huntsman Cancer Foundation. June 20, 2012 - The Brookings Institution announces that Huntsman will serve as a distinguished fellow. January 3, 2013 - The bipartisan political group No Labels names Huntsman and Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV) as leaders of the organization. January 15, 2014 - The Atlantic Council names Huntsman chairman of its board of directors. September 3, 2014 - Huntsman tells the Deseret News he feels same-sex marriage across the country is "inevitable," and rules out another run for president in 2016. July 18, 2017 - The White House announces that President Donald Trump has chosen Huntsman to be the US ambassador to Russia. September 28, 2017 - The Senate confirms Huntsman as ambassador to Russia. November 1, 2018 - The Deseret News publishes an interview in which Huntsman reveals he has stage one skin cancer.  Xi Jinping Fast Facts (CNN)Here's a look at the life of Xi Jinping, president of the People's Republic of China. Personal:

Birth date: June 15, 1953 Birth place: Fuping County, Shaanxi Province, China (some sources say Beijing) Birth name: Xi Jinping Father: Xi Zhongxun, revolutionary and vice premier Mother: Qi Xin Marriages: Peng Liyuan (1987-present); Ke Lingling (divorced) Children: with Peng Liyuan: Xi Mingze Education: Tsinghua University, Chemical Engineering, 1979; Tsinghua University, LLD, 2002 Other Facts:

Is considered to be a "princeling," the son or daughter of a revolutionary veteran. His wife, Peng Liyuan is a famous folk singer in China. Timeline:

1969-1975 - Works as an agricultural laborer in Liangjiahe, Shaanxi. Xi is among the millions of urban youths who were "sent down," forced to leave cities to work as laborers in the countryside under Mao's policies. 1974 - Joins the Communist Party of China. 1979-1982 - Works as the personal secretary to Geng Biao, the minister of defense. 1982-1985 - Serves as deputy secretary and then secretary of Zhengding, Hebei Province. April 1985 - Makes his first trip to the United States as part of an agricultural delegation. 1985-1988 - Executive vice mayor of Xiamen, Fujian Province. 1988-1990 - Party secretary of Ningde, Fujian Province. 1990-1996 - Party secretary of Fuzhou, Fujian Province. 1996-1999 - Deputy party secretary of Fujian Province. 1999-2000 - Vice governor of Fujian Province. 2000-2002 - Governor of Fujian Province. 2002-2007 - Party secretary of Zhejiang Province. 2007 - Is named party secretary of Shanghai. October 2007-present - Politburo Standing Committee member. 2007-2013 - President of the Central Party School. 2008-2013 - Vice president of the People's Republic of China. 2010-2012 - Vice chairman of the Central Military Commission. February 2012 - Delivers a policy speech in Washington and meets with US President Barack Obama. November 15, 2012 - Succeeds Hu Jintao as general secretary of the CPC Central Committee and as chairman of the CMC. March 14, 2013 - Xi is named China's president by parliament. October 2014 - "The Governance of China," a collection of Xi's speeches, is published. November 12, 2014 - Obama and Xi announce a climate change agreement that would cut both countries' greenhouse gas emissions by close to a third over the next two decades. The White House says the announcement marks the first time China has agreed to cut its carbon emissions. September 22-27, 2015 - During Xi's first state visit to the United States, he meets with tech and business leaders in Seattle before flying to Washington to meet with Obama. October 20-23, 2015 - First state visit to the United Kingdom, to bolster economic and diplomatic ties. November 7, 2015 - Meets with Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou in Singapore, marking the first meeting between the leaders of China and Taiwan since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949. April 2016 - Assumes the title of "commander in chief" of the new joint forces battle command center, consolidating his control of the military. October 27, 2016 - Is declared the "core of the Chinese Communist party." The title, originally held by Chairman Mao Zedong, reinforces Xi's power. April 6-7, 2017 - Visits US President Donald Trump at the Mar-A-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida. The men engage in trade negotiations and discuss the North Korean nuclear threat. October 24, 2017 - Party delegates vote unanimously to make "Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era" a guiding principle. The resolution mirrors many of the themes addressed by Xi during a recent speech in which he detailed his sweeping vision for the country, charting its future in a world where China's reach is now extending -- and being felt -- further than ever before. February 25, 2018 - The party proposes amending the country's constitution to abolish term limits for presidents, allowing Xi to serve indefinitely as China's head of state. March 11, 2018 - Parliament endorses the controversial change to the country's constitution, paving the way for Xi to stay in power indefinitely. Out of 2,964 ballots, two delegates vote against the move and three abstain, suggesting minimal opposition to Xi's push to rule for life. Passage requires two-thirds of the vote, which is a largely symbolic exercise. March 17, 2018 - Begins his second term as president, with no term limits. March 25-27, 2018 - Hosts a visit from North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. May 4, 2018 - Speaks with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe via phone about the situation in the Korean Peninsula. This is the first time that the two leaders have ever spoken on the phone. December 1, 2018 - Meets with Trump to discuss tensions over trade during the G20 summit in Argentina.  Exposure to infection in the womb increases risk of autism and depression, study says (CNN)Children born to women who had a severe infection during pregnancy, such as sepsis, flu or pneumonia, show an increased risk of autism spectrum disorder and depression, new research finds. Yet those exposed to even a relatively minor urinary tract infection in utero also experienced an increased risk of such disorders. Women should "make sure you have your influenza vaccination in pregnancy," said Dr. Kristina Adams Waldorf, co-author of the study and a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Washington School of Medicine in Seattle. Although the flu shot is safe for pregnant women, coming down with the illness during pregnancy "can be very dangerous for your baby's mental health and brain development," she said. Autism and depression, not bipolar disorder Adams Waldorf and her colleagues analyzed patient data from Sweden's national health registry, specifically looking at information "for the entire population of pregnant women that were hospitalized between 1973 and 2014," she said. "And then we had up to 41 years of follow-up on those children that stayed in Sweden." In total, they looked at the records of 1,791,520 children and, using hospitalization codes, identified those who'd been exposed to their mother's infection in utero. The study was published Wednesday in the journal JAMA Psychiatry. The results, Adams Waldorf said, were "very surprising." Children born to mothers with an infection during pregnancy had a 79% increased risk of an autism diagnosis and a 24% increased risk of a depression diagnosis as adults, the researchers found. They also saw "an increased risk of suicide in those children that had been exposed to infections in utero," Adams Waldorf said, adding that this association made the depression findings "much stronger." The increased risk level for autism and depression was detected regardless of whether fetal exposure was to a severe infection -- such as sepsis, flu, pneumonia, meningitis or encephalitis, chorioamnionitis (an infection of the placental tissues) or pyelonephritis (a severe kidney infection) -- or a urinary tract infection. No increased risk of bipolar disorder or psychosis, including schizophrenia, was seen among those exposed to infection during fetal development, the study showed. "We need more research into understanding the inflammation that occurs in the urinary tract infection and how it might impact the fetus," Adams Waldorf said. More research is also needed on areas of the fetal brain that are extremely vulnerable to damage from infection and inflammation. "The hippocampus is a very vulnerable part of the brain that is targeted by Zika virus infection but may be vulnerable to other infections as well," she said, explaining that this brain region "plays a key role in social and emotional functioning." Sensitive periods in brain development Margaret McCarthy, a neuroscientist and professor at the University of Maryland School of Medicine, said the study is "astonishing" in terms of both the number of subjects and the length of time. "To my knowledge, this is the largest and most comprehensive study of in utero infections and the health outcomes for the offspring," said McCarthy, who had no role in the new research. The fact that both severe infection and urinary tract infection conferred the same level of risk "highlights that there's something very subtle that can be very profound in brain development, and it probably has to do with sensitive periods in brain development that we don't understand yet," she said. In her own research on sex differences and brain development, she found that a lot of immune system signaling "sculpts" the male brain during development. "And we have speculated that this increases their risk for neurodevelopmental or neuropsychiatric disorders like ADHD, autism, et cetera." Yet, she added, studies have shown that both boosting inflammatory molecules (due to an illness or infection) or dampening them all the way down (by treating an illness or infection with certain medicines) may have deleterious effects on brain development. "Brain development is really complicated, and things that we think are relatively benign sometimes aren't, because we still don't understand just a lot of the basic signaling molecules that are involved," she said. Dr. Alan S. Brown, a professor of psychiatry and epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center, said in an email that "overall, the investigators have done a commendable job." However, he also noted that the "findings could also be influenced by treatment-seeking behaviors." A previous study from Taiwan showed that treatment for infection in the third trimester was related to autism risk, explained Brown, who was not involved in the new study. "Starting in the 1990s, we demonstrated that prenatal exposure to several pathogens including rubella, influenza and toxoplasmosis are related to risk of schizophrenia," he said of his own research. "In more recent work, we showed that prenatal influenza was related to bipolar disorder." Brown believes the new study provides more evidence for "relationships between prenatal infection and autism and opens up a potential new avenue of exploration regarding prenatal infection and depression." McCarthy said, "I don't think pregnant women should panic. Try to avoid any kind of infection; avoid it if you can, and if you do have to treat it, treat it judiciously."  China's military is going from strength to strength under Xi Jinping Hong Kong (CNN)Under Chinese President Xi Jinping, a revolution has been taking place inside Beijing's armed forces. The People's Liberation Army (PLA) has grown and modernized rapidly since China reopened to the world in the 1980s, but under Xi that pace has accelerated with a focus on fighting and winning future wars. Xi has also embarked on a massive internal reorganization of the PLA, streamlining the organization and bringing it firmly under his control. On Tuesday, the Chinese government unveiled an increase in military spending of 7.5% during its annual "Two Sessions" legislative meeting in Beijing, a slight dip on last year's spending increase. Experts said the slight drop was likely to avoid domestic perceptions that the country's military spending far exceeded its overall economic growth, which is set to grow at no more than 6.5% in 2019. While the Chinese military may be one of the world's best-funded armed forces, its budget still pales in comparison to United States. In December, US President Donald Trump agreed to increase the defense budget funding to $750 billion in 2019. The US Navy still dominates the world's oceans too, far outpacing China in its logistical capabilities and international reach. But Beijing is rapidly gaining ground on its American rival, by churning out naval vessels and making technological advances, according to Andrew Erickson, professor of strategy at the US Naval War College's China Maritime Studies Institute. "No one has presided over this level of Chinese military development in Chinese history before Xi Jinping," he said. 'Armed forces to be reckoned with' Directly comparing every aspect of two countries' military budgets is impossible, said Erickson, because different governments count spending in different ways. But the US expert said it was incontrovertible that China's military budget was the second largest in the world. "Clearly, overall, these are armed forces to be reckoned with. In many areas, they have weapons systems that only a few other countries possess," he said. "If you look where China's military was a few short years ago, under Xi the progress is truly tremendous. It is very impressive." The signs of a push to modernize the military are everywhere. Between 2016 and 2017, 32 new ships were commissioned by the PLA, according to US government reports. In comparison, the US commissioned 13. Since 2014, China has launched more submarines, warships, principal amphibious vessels and auxiliaries than the total number of ships currently serving in the navies of Germany, India, Spain, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, according to a 2018 report by think tank IISS. "China's navy is receiving warships so quickly that Chinese sources liken this to dumping dumplings into soup broth," Erickson said. The Chinese air force has also been regularly debuting new and improved planes and weapons, including the twin-engine J-20 stealth fighter. Beijing's air force is now the largest in Asia and the third largest in the world, according to the US Defense Department, and is closing the gap with the US "across a spectrum of capabilities." At the same time, Xi has also begun a reorganization of military personnel, stressing quality and effectiveness over quantity of staff. In 2017, Xi streamlined the powerful Central Military Commission, which he leads, reducing the number of members and solidifying his control. Multiple former generals have been disciplined or imprisoned for corruption in an attempt to professionalize the armed services. Aircraft carriers and corvettes While the military strengths of the US and China are often compared, the two governments ostensibly have built their armed forces to serve different goals. Washington says it aims to maintain a worldwide reach for its military to protect allies and American interests internationally. Beijing claims its interests lie closer to home. Zhang Yesui, the National People's Congress spokesman, on Monday afternoon told reporters: "China's limited defense spending, which is for safeguarding its national sovereignty, security and territorial integrity, poses no threat to any other country. "Whether a country is a military threat to others or not is not determined by its increase in defense expenditure, but by the foreign and national defense policies it adopts." The major scenarios that China's military cares about could be called "home games, rather than away games," Erickson said. The Chinese government has built a navy and armed forces designed to protect the country and exert its influence in the surrounding region, especially the East and South China seas. The proof is in the military hardware that the two countries have focused on. While the US has a huge fleet of 12 nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, China has barely one conventionally powered carrier operating, with another in the wings. The Type 001A, the country's first homegrown aircraft carrier, was launched in 2018 but still has not joined the fleet. Beijing has, however, rapidly produced Jiangdao-class corvettes, a small warship generally best suited to fighting close to home. A US Department of Defense report in 2018 said this move was designed with an eye to "littoral" combat, or fighting close to China's shores. Backing this up is China's rapid production of frigates, another small type of warship, and the arming and expansion of the country's coast guard. This makes sense given the Chinese government's focus on controlling the South China Sea, where it has been building militarized artificial islands and holding regular drills in the sea. But all this doesn't prevent the Chinese military from having growing its fleet to extend its global influence. The PLA opened its first international base in Djibouti in July 2017. A third aircraft carrier is reportedly under construction, featuring advanced launching capabilities. "They're building power projection capabilities which will give them greater ability to project presence and power (into) the Pacific and the Indian Ocean," said Malcolm Davis, senior analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute. Doubts China has undoubtedly made rapid progress. Some experts, however, doubt its ability to fight as a coherent force or the experience of its troops. There are also doubts around the effectiveness of some of the PLA's new technologies. Military analyst Carl Schuster, a former US Navy captain, has cast doubt on some of the advances allegedly made by the Chinese military, including claims that it has developed a ship-killer ballistic missile. Such a missile could in theory be based well out-of-range of US naval strike forces while putting Washington's biggest assets, its aircraft carriers, in range. But Schuster says no military has ever successfully developed an anti-ship ballistic missile and China had shown no evidence of actually being able to hit a moving target in the ocean. There is also discontent within the Chinese military over the treatment of veterans. The decision in 2015 to lay off 300,000 soldiers over three years to streamline the armed forces led to repeated mass protests in a number of cities after the government failed to pay all their pensions in full. But Davis said the military prospects of the United States are looking increasingly troubled, thanks to rising maintenance costs and an aging fleet, which might give Beijing the chance it needs to catch up. "It's not clear the traditional advantage in military technology for the US is going to remain intact," he said. "Getting that balance between sustainment and modernization right is a real challenge for the US as their forces get older and older, whereas the Chinese are steamrolling ahead." CNN's Serenitie Wang and Brad Lendon contributed to this article. The 27-year-old who instigated a referendum in famously apolitical Japan (CNN)Jinshiro Motoyama is not your average political activist. In a country where politics is dominated by established middle-aged politicians, the 27-year-old Okinawa native is a university student with no party affiliations. But Motoyama has disrupted the norm. He masterminded this month's Okinawa referendum on the national government's plan to relocate a longstanding but controversial United States air base within Japan's southernmost prefecture. Okinawa was occupied by the Americans after World War II, and only reverted to Japan in 1972. The lingering US presence remains a divisive issue. The island represents less than 1% of Japanese territory, but hosts roughly 70% of US bases and half the 47,000 American troops in Japan, according to the last count in 2011. Last Sunday, 52% of voters in Okinawa -- which has a population of 1.4 million -- turned out to cast their ballots. Just over 70% of them opposed plans to relocate Futenma Air Station from a densely populated area to a remote location with endangered coral reefs. Instead, they say the base should be moved off the island altogether. The decision was not legally binding and Tokyo plans to press ahead with the relocation. But for Motoyama, the vote was about much, much more. "The base issue is tied to all of our other problems but we don't want to just limit the discussion to the US military presence," he said. "We need to open up a dialogue about Okinawa's future." A young leader Motoyama grew up in the shadow of the Marine Corps Air Station Futenma base in the city of Ginowan on southern Okinawa. For the most part, he says, the bases blended into the landscape. "They'd been there before I was born so I coexisted alongside them," Motoyama said. "But I remember kicking a soccer ball into one by mistake when I was around six years old. I couldn't go in to retrieve it -- and it only hit me why when I grew up." Motoyama left Okinawa to study in Tokyo when he was 18. There, he became more politicized. "In Japan, many young people feel like they can't change the political system," he said. "But I think that young people in Okinawa are starting to feel like if people do something then things can change." In February 2018, Motoyama established a citizens' group dedicated to solving the problems afflicting the prefecture. He toured many of Okinawa's 55 islands to learn about the issues people faced -- and, over the course of two months, gathered more than 92,000 signatures calling for the referendum. The vote fnally went ahead on February 24. Being the public face of a political movement is not an easy task, of course. In January, Motoyama staged a five-day hunger strike after his home region of Ginowan and four other Okinawan municipalities opted out of the referendum because their assemblies refused to fund it. He had read about how Okinawans used hunger strikes as a protest tactic while under US rule. "I carried out my hunger strike in front of the mayoral office in Ginowan," Motoyama said. In the end, Ginowan and the other municipalities took part. New and encouraging era Motoyama's referendum helped galvanize political enthusiasm among Okinawa's youth, according to Koichi Nakano, a political science professor at Sophia University. "The activism of the Okinawans has long been known, but this time the youths took the lead -- and that is new and encouraging," Nakano said. Robin O'Day, a Japanese youth activism expert at the University of North Georgia, says it's a big deal even to persuade young Japanese to discuss politics because they fear job prospects may be damaged if they're seen to be politically inclined. O'Day says Motoyama's tactic of tackling a specific problem rather than arguing from a specific ideological position made it easier for youths to join the conversation. "(Young Japanese) are discovering that they can engage in political issues without reproducing the same old political patterns of belonging to either the right or the left of the political landscape," he said. Troubled past For Motoyama, the referendum was a way of engaging all residents in Okinawa's political and social issues. "The prefecture has long been suffering from the burden of having to shoulder a grossly disproportionate share of the US bases, on top of its tragic history during World War II and after," Nakano added. Okinawa suffered one of the war's bloodiest battles and lost a third of its population. The US says its Okinawa bases help defend Japan and maintain peace in the Asia-Pacific, due to their proximity to Taiwan, the Korean Peninsula and contested areas in the East and South China Seas. But the US troops stationed there have a tense relationship with locals. In 1995, the rape of a 12-year-old girl by three US servicemen prompted outrage in Okinawa. About 85,000 protesters gathered to demand the removal of US bases. Nakano, the political scientist, said Motoyama had reignited the military presence debate just as it had started to die down. Okinawa's future The vote also opens public debate on wider issues. Okinawa is Japan's poorest prefecture with the highest number of centenarians in the country and the world -- about 50 per 100,000 people. Average incomes are still below the national standard, and islanders say the economy is lagging in comparison to the rest of Japan. Low education, high child poverty and high school dropout rates blight progress. In the immediate aftermath of World War II, half the Okinawan economy's revenue was base-related. By 2013, that had fallen to 5.1%. But with its renowned white beaches and clear blue seas, many are looking forward to new opportunities. In 2017, Okinawa topped Hawaii as a tourist destination, with 9.6 million visitors reportedly flocking to the prefecture. "The experiences of World War II that our grandparents lived through feels distant to us as we didn't experience it," Motoyama said. "We need to think of a way of inheriting this collective memory while moving forward."  China lost 161 billionaires because its stock markets tanked Hong Kong (CNN Business)China's recent stock market turmoil has dealt a heavy blow to the ranks of its super-rich. The number of billionaires in Greater China, which includes Taiwan and Hong Kong, plunged by 161 in the past year, according to wealth research firm Hurun Report. Chinese fortunes were squeezed last year by a plunge of more than 25% in the country's stock markets and a slump in the country's currency, Hurun said Tuesday as it published its Global Rich List. Chinese financial markets were rocked in 2018 by fears over the country's slowing economy and its damaging trade war with the United States. Analysts expect economic growth to bottom out later this year. The number of Chinese billionaires fell from 819 to 658 in the year ended January 31, according to Hurun. Despite the big drop, the country is still home to more billionaires than the United States, which has 584, an increase of 13, according to Hurun. Among the biggest losers in China were Ma Huateng, the CEO of internet giant Tencent (TCEHY), whose fortune slumped 19% to $38 billion. Shares in Tencent were hit hard by a freeze in Chinese approvals for many of its money-making games. Dalian Wanda Group's Wang Jianlin, once China's richest man, suffered a 37% plunge in net worth to $17 billion. Wang, who once boasted about his sprawling global business empire, has been more focused in recent years on selling off assets from his real estate and entertainment conglomerate. Jack Ma and others get richer Some Chinese billionaires thrived amid the turmoil, though. Jack Ma, founder of e-commerce company Alibaba (BABA), enjoyed a rise of more than 20% in his wealth to $39 billion, making him China's richest man. Ma's fortune rose last year thanks to a sharp increase in the value of Alibaba's online payments affiliate, Ant Financial. He is still a long way behind the world's richest man, Jeff Bezos. Hurun pegs the Amazon (AMZN) chief's net worth at $147 billion. A series of big Chinese IPOs also catapulted new names into the ranks of the super-rich. Zhang Yong is now the richest restaurant owner in the world after his Chinese hot pot chain, Haidilao, went public in Hong Kong last year. Zhang is worth an estimated $8.8 billion. Another new entrant is Zhang Yiming, the founder of internet startup ByteDance. The company, which is behind a bunch of popular social media apps like TikTok, is now reportedly valued at about $75 billion. "Despite the slowdown in the Chinese economy, there is significant innovation going on, shown by China having more new faces than any other country in the world," said Rupert Hoogewerf, Hurun Report's chairman. The Hurun index measures individual wealth as of January 31. That leaves out that the impact of February's rebound in Chinese stocks, which has been driven by hopes of more stimulus measures from the Chinese government and optimism about a potential deal to end the trade war. The benchmark Shanghai Composite index is up nearly 14% since the start of February.  Tsai Ing-wen: The unconventional president staring down Beijing Taipei, Taiwan (CNN)On the surface, Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen isn't a natural politician. The former laywer, 62, is a self-proclaimed introvert. She values privacy and doesn't like crowds. And when it comes to selfies, she doesn't mince words. "I hate taking photographs," she told CNN as she walked through an open-air market in the capital Taipei. But not 30 seconds later, there she was, with a practiced smile and kind words for a supporter with an outstretched cell phone. Such is life for Taiwan's first female president. Caught between an aggressive Beijing on one side and an unofficial ally in Washington on the other, Tsai has to maintain a delicate balance. Her reticence to ingratiate herself to the public has allowed detractors to paint her as a detached politician, someone who doesn't understand the average Taiwan citizen. Tsai says any perceived aloofness is due to her keen focus on government affairs and international relations. But it's a situation she acknowledges. "When I became the president, I seemed to be someone rather isolated and [the public] felt that there is a distance of some sort between me and them," she said. Eating noodles in Taipei It doesn't help that her aggressive progressive agenda, including a focus on LGBT rights and pension reform, have not been big hits with the general public. Ahead of a 2020 re-election bid, she knows she needs to rehabilitate that image. Some polls have Tsai down as much as 30% against potential Kuomintang presidential nominee Eric Chu, who she defeated in 2016. It's likely a key reason why CNN was given extraordinary access to the President for three days in February. The takeaway was a leader with a dry wit and self-deprecating humor. At lunch in a Taipei hole-in-the wall, she said noodles were a bad choice. "I just told the public to eat more rice, because it's healthy and helps support local industry," she said, shaking her head. Asked whether she came to such places often, she said no, gesturing to the stone-faced security team watching her every move. "They kill my appetite," she said. Across the street, while buying Chinese-style braised meet, Tsai said it should be washed down with Taiwan beer. Tsai said one of her biggest regrets from her first two years in office was she didn't spent enough time with Taiwan voters, so they could get to know her. "Many people thought I was a bit detached from them," she said. Shrewd tactician Tsai may not be a natural politician, but she didn't become Taiwan's first female president by accident. A shrewd tactician, she spent 15 years as a trade negotiator before leading Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council, which handles issues with mainland China. Eventually, she became the head of the Democratic Progressive Party. A failed bid for the presidency in 2012 did not dissuade her, and she rode to power on a wave of anti-China sentiment in 2016. Although Taiwan has been self-governed since 1949, Beijing still views the island as a rebel province and is increasing pressure to reunite. "If it's Taiwan today ... who's next? Any country in the region -- if it no longer wants to submit to the will of China, they would face similar military threats," Tsai said. Given the relative unpopularity of her domestic policies, she's hoping her hard China stance can be an election-winning issue. Tsai has certainly been more explicit in her anti-Beijing sentiment of late. In January, she declared China needed to respect Taiwan's independence and she would protect "the free and democratic life of our 23 million people." "If a vibrant democracy that champions universal values and follows international rules were destroyed by China, it would be a huge setback for global democracy," she told CNN.  IRS analyst charged in leak of Michael Cohen's bank records (CNN)Federal prosecutors have charged an analyst with the Internal Revenue Service with illegally disclosing confidential reports about Michael Cohen's bank records that revealed that President Donald Trump's former lawyer had sought to profit from his proximity to the White House, according to a complaint unsealed on Thursday. The analyst, John C. Fry, was charged with the unauthorized disclosure of a document called a suspicious activity report, which banks file when they review transactions that raise red flags. CNN previously reported that the Justice Department was investigating the leak last year of the confidential reports related to Cohen's banking activity. Fry, an investigative analyst with the IRS's law enforcement arm, is accused of turning over the reports in the spring of 2018 to an attorney, Michael Avenatti, and of confirming confidential banking information in them to a reporter for The New Yorker, according to the complaint, which was filed under seal earlier this month. On Thursday, Fry appeared before US Magistrate Judge Laurel Beeler in federal court in San Francisco, according to the US Attorney's Office for the Northern District of California, which charged Fry, and was released on a $50,000 bond. In May 2018, Fry, who works in the IRS' San Francisco office, accessed and downloaded five suspicious activity reports connected to Cohen, according to the complaint. Those reports contained information about a bank account opened for Essential Consultants LLC, a shell company Cohen created, and detailed "numerous suspicious payments" from a company linked to a Russian oligarch, pharmaceutical giant Novartis, AT&T -- which owns CNN -- and others. Another report contained information that matches the $130,000 that Cohen paid to Avenatti's client, adult-film actress Stormy Daniels, to silence her allegations of an affair with Trump. (Trump has denied having an affair with Daniels.) Yet another "discussed possible fraudulent and illegal financial transactions" by Cohen in 2016 and 2017 in Singapore, Hungary, Malaysia, Canada, Taiwan, Kenya and Israel, according to the complaint. About 20 minutes after Fry began accessing the reports, he placed two calls to a number associated with Avenatti, the complaint says, and shortly thereafter, Fry attempted to access two other Cohen-connected suspicious activity reports that the system told him were "unavailable." According to the complaint, several days later Fry again called Avenatti, and Avenatti subsequently "used his public Twitter account to circulate a dossier releasing confidential banking information related to Cohen and his company Essential Consultants." Fry also called a reporter at The New Yorker, who isn't named in the complaint but, based on the description of the reporter's work, appears to be Ronan Farrow. After weeks of WhatsApp messages between Fry and the reporter, Farrow published a story that quoted a "law enforcement officer" responsible for the leak of Cohen's banking information as saying he did so because he became alarmed that he was unable to find two of the reports on Cohen. In fact, the complaint says, the suspicious activity reports that were not available to Fry had been given "restricted access" in the system "because they were related to a sensitive open investigation." At the time, Cohen was being investigated by the Manhattan US attorney's office, which later charged him with eight counts, to which he pleaded guilty. In recent weeks, Fry's hearing date was pushed back several times as federal prosecutors were engaged with Fry's attorney on plea negotiations, according to a person familiar with the talks. As of Thursday, Fry declined to plead to felony charges in exchange for probation. As a result, prosecutors will seek an indictment of Fry on February 28, this person said, and are expected to seek two additional charges, misuse of a Social Security number and misuse of a government computer. Fry is scheduled for a preliminary hearing or arraignment on March 13, according to the US attorney's office.  The UK would be 'irresponsible' to let Huawei into 5G, think tank warns Hong Kong (CNN Business)Chinese tech giant Huawei is facing a new attack as it tries to persuade the UK government to let it help build super-fast 5G networks in the country. Top British cybersecurity officials are reportedly confident they can manage any risks from Huawei's telecommunications equipment, but a report published Wednesday by the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI), a top security think tank, said that would be a mistake. "Allowing Huawei's participation is at best naive, at worst irresponsible," the report said, suggesting such a move could compromise the United Kingdom's communications infrastructure. The US government is pushing allies around the world to block wireless operators from buying Huawei gear for the 5G networks they're starting to build. US officials say the company's technology could be used by Chinese intelligence agencies for spying. Huawei and the Chinese government have repeatedly denied the US allegations. Huawei did not respond to requests for comment on Wednesday. Zeng Rong, a spokesperson for the Chinese Embassy in the United Kingdom, said in a statement that "discrediting a company without any concrete evidence misleads the public, violates rules of commerce and damages business confidence." "The right approach is to be rational towards foreign companies and support fair competition," she added. The report's release comes days after the Financial Times reported that the UK's National Cyber Security Centre had concluded the risks of using Huawei equipment in 5G networks could be managed. The UK government, a key US ally on intelligence and security, is expected to decide this spring which suppliers can provide technology for 5G networks. If it chooses to allow the use of Huawei gear, it could seriously undermine the US campaign against the company and influence other governments that are weighing how to handle the issue. The UK Department of Culture, Media and Sport said in a statement earlier this week that it was "looking at a range of options" and that "no decisions have been taken." 'A rigorous, ruthless advancement of China's interests' The RUSI report — written by former diplomat Charles Parton, who spent 22 years working in mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan — warned that the UK government needed to stay alert for interference from the Chinese government across a range of fronts, including politics and research. Britain is a particularly appealing target for interference as a close US ally with a large Chinese ethnic community and an open, advanced economy, Parton said. "Beijing's interference is not aimed at subverting the West, but represents a rigorous, ruthless advancement of China's interests and values at the expense of those of the West," he wrote. Australia and New Zealand have already blocked mobile carriers from using equipment from Huawei, the world's biggest maker of telecommunications equipment, over security concerns. The United States has made it clear that any country that uses Huawei will find its opportunities to work with Washington limited. In a speech in Munich on Saturday, Vice President Mike Pence described the company as a "threat." "Chinese law requires them to provide Beijing's vast security apparatus with access to any data that touches their networks or equipment," Pence said. The RUSI report reached a similar conclusion, saying that although Huawei may be a private company, China's national security laws required cooperation with authorities when requested. "Huawei's Chinese staff have no choice but to accede to requests from Chinese government departments," the report said. The Chinese government has denied it would demand access to Huawei's technology for spying, and the company has said it would refuse such a request. Intelligence ties at risk If the UK government approves the use of Huawei technology in 5G networks, close allies might be less inclined to work with it in the future, the RUSI report warned. Britain is part of the intelligence-sharing group known as Five Eyes, which also includes the United States, Australia, Canada and New Zealand. "The maintenance of a 'Five Eyes standard' of cyber security in telecommunications is a vital strategic and security interest, the loss of which would go far beyond a reduction in intelligence reports exchanged and might lead to the UK being excluded from work on developing future technologies for intelligence collection," the report said. It also advised devoting more resources to protecting British universities, where technology of interest to Beijing may be under development. "Ultimately, the United Kingdom's goal must be genuine reciprocity and an equal, mature and comprehensive relationship with China," the report said. Jethro Mullen contributed to this report. Facing an aggressive Beijing, Taiwan's president issues a warning to the world Taipei, Taiwan (CNN)Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen has sent out a warning to Asia in the face of mounting aggression from Beijing. In an exclusive interview with CNN, Tsai said the military threat posed by China was growing "every day" in line with a more assertive foreign policy under its President Xi Jinping. "If it's Taiwan today, people should ask who's next? Any country in the region -- if it no longer wants to submit to the will of China, they would face similar military threats," said Tsai. Taiwan and China are separated by fewer than 130 kilometers (81 miles) at their closest point. For seven decades, the two have maintained an uneasy truce following their split at the end of a destructive civil war in 1949. Unification is a long-term aim for China's ruling Communist Party, which considers self-governed democratic Taiwan -- an island of 23 million people -- to be a renegade province. But it was the election of Tsai and her historically pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) in 2016 which sent relations between the two governments spiraling. Beijing has placed mounting diplomatic and economic pressure on Taiwan, conducting live-fire drills in nearby seas and flew H-6K bombers and surveillance aircraft around the island. "With China becoming increasingly strong and ambitious, we are faced with growing threats," Tsai said. "Our challenge is whether our independent existence, security, prosperity and democracy can be maintained. This is the biggest issue for Taiwan." Taiwan's unofficial ally the United States has for decades acted as the island's security guarantee against the threat of Chinese military action. But when asked directly, Tsai wouldn't be drawn on whether she believed US President Donald Trump would come to her aid. Instead the Taiwan leader said she is focused on strengthening Taiwan's own defense capabilities in the face of an "imbalanced war," as China's military modernizes. "We have to be prepared at all times," she said. CNN has reached out to the China's Taiwan Affairs Office for comment. 'Growing threats' As the first woman to be elected Taiwan's leader, Tsai was carried into office on a swell of anti-Beijing sentiment following attempts by the Kuomintang party to move closer to China. But her popularity has fallen steadily in the face of domestic opposition to her policies and a struggling Taiwan economy battling to keep up with the mainland. In November Tsai's DPP suffered a bruising defeat in local elections, losing by as much as 10% across the island. Tsai said the 2018 result was due to what she called a "challenging" domestic reform agenda. "The people don't feel the result of the reform so much when you've just started," she said. The setback has not deterred Tsai who revealed to CNN she would stand for re-election in 2020. "It's natural that any sitting president wants to do more for the country." China's Xi is unlikely to welcome a second term for Tsai. Since she came to power, the Chinese government has increasingly tried to exert pressure on Taiwan, known officially as the Republic of China, to unify with the People's Republic of China, as the mainland is officially known. In January, Xi Jinping called for the "peaceful reunification" of China and Taiwan in a landmark speech, warning that Taiwan independence was a "dead end." "We make no promise to renounce the use of force," the Chinese leader said. Tsai said President Xi's January speech had caused concern within Taiwan. She said the island refused to become another Hong Kong or Macau -- both semi-autonomous cities under Beijing's rule. "(The speech) has alarmed us that Taiwan's independent existence may be changed," she said. But Tsai said the threats and intimidation out of Beijing are counter-productive to Xi's goals, and serve only to push the island further away from the Communist Party and strengthen support for democracy. "China may feel such (pressure) would create a sense of failure for people in Taiwan and deal a blow on our morale. But every such move has only further upset and alienated Taiwanese people," she said. "China's behavior has only backfired in Taiwan." Warmer ties with Trump In January Taiwan held military drills intended to ready its troops in the event of an invasion from the mainland. Photos showed dramatic images of helicopters and artillery launchers conducting live-fire exercises. Tsai said she was strengthening Taiwan's military capabilities in the face of China's rapid modernization. She said Taiwan was "on alert 24/7" for the first sign of a Chinese strike. "What we are expecting is, after withstanding the first wave of Chinese attacks ourselves, the rest of the world would stand up to exert strong pressure on China," she said. While Tsai did not say it specifically, it's likely any pressure exerted on China will come from Washington. For years, the United States has provided a tacit guarantee of protection from Beijing. Under Trump, the relationship between Washington and Taipei has grown closer with expanded weapons sales and greater vocal support from US politicians. In 2018 Trump signed into law the Taiwan Travel Act, encouraging "visits between officials of the United States and Taiwan at all levels." Months later, the US approved the sale of submarine parts to Taiwan. In June, the US opened a new, $255 million de facto embassy on the island, known as the American Institute in Taiwan. Many leaders around the world have criticized President Trump for focusing on domestic US interests at the expense of the international community but Tsai said she didn't see it that way. "Any president has to take multiple factors into consideration when making decisions, especially domestic decisions. That's why President Trump has been emphasizing 'America First'," she said. Trump broke decades of protocol and took a brief congratulatory call from Tsai upon his election in 2016, but the two have yet to meet in person. There is an outside chance that could change this year. A group of US lawmakers, led by Republican senator Cory Gardner, have asked US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to invite Tsai to address a joint meeting of the US Congress. But Tsai declined to say whether she would accept an invitation to speak, a move that should it go ahead would be sure to infuriate China. "It's not a simple question of invitation and acceptance," said Tsai. "Whether or not to go deliver a speech in Washington would depend on whether such a move benefits Taiwan, our relations with the US and regional stability." The US has been careful, at least publicly, to adhere to a so-called "one China" policy, acknowledging Beijing's assertion that Taiwan is part of China, as well as the People's Republic's status as the sole legitimate government of China. It is this policy that sees the US base its embassy in Beijing, but not in Taipei. But Washington has also maintained deliberate ambiguity on the status of Taiwan, only encouraging both sides to engage in dialogue to settle their long-running disputes. Caught in the middle Trump's foreign policy hasn't all been good news for Taiwan. As the US President tries to drive down the trade deficit, Taiwan has become caught in the middle of a US-China trade war. "There's a lot of trade and economic flow between Taiwan and the US as well as investment and trade with China," said Tsai. "We have to make sure that we can lessen the impact of any kind of uncertainty on Taiwan's economy." Tsai said with no clear end to the trade dispute in sight, she was taking actions to protect Taiwan, including government spending to stimulate domestic consumption and investment. "So that the growth of our economy can be driven by domestic demand instead of an over reliance on exports," said Tsai. But while the trade war may cause difficulties for Taiwan's exports, it could present an opportunity for the island's tech sector. The US is currently ramping up its opposition to Chinese technology, in particular the telecoms giant Huawei, over concerns of potential security threats. Both US Vice President Mike Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have warned countries that using Chinese 5G mobile phone technology will make it more difficult to work with the US. Tsai said that unlike Chinese products, other countries had no such security concerns about Taiwan's technology. "Taiwan is a very secure location for the manufacture of such products," she said. "We manufacture and design a lot of high-tech products such as semiconductors and we rank in the front in terms of worldwide production." Taiwan faces down China Throughout her interview, Tsai painted the picture of Taiwan as an underdog facing down the growing might of Beijing, the first line of defense for the liberal, democratic world order. "If a vibrant democracy that champions universal values and follows international rules were destroyed by China, it would be a huge setback for global democracy," she said. Set against that backdrop, military tensions between Taiwan, China and the US have continued to rise. On January 2019, Washington sent two guided missile destroyers, the USS McCampbell and USNS Walter S. Diehl, through the Taiwan Strait in a message of defiance to Beijing. In February, China's People's Liberation Army issued a propaganda video juxtaposing images of Chinese jets and bombers with famous landmarks across Taiwan. In reply, the Taiwan military posted dramatic footage of soldiers, tanks and explosions, followed by a simple message -- "On standby 24/7." Tsai said China wants to become a "global hegemony" and if Xi's attention turns to expansion outside of the country's borders, Taiwan would be "first to be hit." "I believe this is not just an issue of Taiwan under attack, but a reflection of China's willingness to use force for its expansionist policy," she said. "It's not just Taiwan's interests at stake, it's the whole region's or even the whole world's." CNN's Matt Rivers and Steven Jiang reported from Taiwan. CNN's Ben Westcott wrote from Hong Kong. 40 beautiful places to visit in China Almost all of us are familiar with the great man-made attractions in China: The Forbidden City in Beijing. The Terracotta Warriors of Xi'an. Shanghai's skyscraper forest in Pudong. For a country of its massive size and varied geography, however, it's surprising how relatively few people outside China appreciate the extent of the country's other destinations, many of them natural wonders to rival any in the world. Is it possible to limit a list of China's superlative attractions to a mere 40? Not really. But a photo memory card goes only so far. And, as this story illustrates, it's impossible to stop clicking once you get a camera in front of some of China's most beautiful places to visit. The list is in alphabetical order: 1. Anhui: Hongcun Ancient Village (安徽宏村) The 900-year-old village of Hongcun has long drawn in-the-know Chinese visitors, who love its tranquil vibe and distinctive architecture. The striking Huangshan mountain backdrop (see No. 2) doesn't hurt, either. Its classic structures, Moon Lake and picturesque locals have been an inspiration for art students for decades. Walking the narrow lanes paved with quartzite and seeing farmers working in rice fields, with the reflection of ancient houses in the lake, should provide enough material to get you started on your own visual masterpiece. Hongcun Village is roughly 70 kilometers northwest of the city of Huangshan in Anhui Province. Major cities connected to Huangshan Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Xi'an. 2. Anhui: Mount Huangshan (安徽黄山) A UNESCO World Heritage Site set amidst "the loveliest mountains of China," Mount Huangshan, aka Mount Yellow, is a once-in-a-lifetime trek for many Chinese. The 1,863-meter mountain is renowned for its oddly shaped pines, spectacular rock formations, hot springs and seas of misty and melancholy clouds. A trip here provides a mountain of feeling. Major cities connected to Huangshan Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Xi'an. 3. Fujian: Mount Wuyi (福建武夷山) A major landmark in southeast China and a UNESCO World Heritage Site, Mount Wuyi was the setting for the development and spread of neo-Confucianism, influential in East Asia since the 11th century. Bamboo raft drifting in the Nine Bend River (lower gorge) is a popular activity among visitors. The two-hour, eight-kilometer trips provide grand views of Mount Wuyi. It's the best way to take in the serene beauty of the smooth peaks and clear water. Mount Wuyi is about 350 kilometers northwest of Fuzhou, the provincial capital of Fujian. Major cities connected to Fuzhou Airport by direct flights include Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and Xi'an. 4. Fujian: Xiapu Mudflat (福建霞浦) Yes, a humble mudflat is a favorite destination of Chinese photographers. A small region along the southeast China coastline, Xiapu nevertheless has the largest mudflat in the country, encompassing 40 square kilometers and more than 400 kilometers of coastline. Along its tiger-striped beaches, bamboo structures and poles, buoys and fishing vessels provide human counterpoints to the area's natural beauty. Admission fee: Free The nearest hub of Xiapu Mudflat is Fuzhou, provincial capital of Fujian. It's about 175 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Fuzhou Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Xi'an. MORE: Is Xinjiang province the best-kept travel secret in China? 5. Gansu: Echoing Sand Mountain and Crescent Lake, Dunhuang (甘肃省敦煌市鸣沙山和月牙泉) Echoing Sand Mountain is a series of dunes surrounding Crescent Lake. Named for its distinctive shape and aural characteristics, its echoes can be heard as the wind blows over the dunes. Visitors ride camels up the dunes, which rise to 250 meters. With gardens blooming on its banks, Crescent Lake offers a lovely visual counterpoint to all that sand. Echoing Sand Mountain and Crescent Lake is six kilometers south of Dunhuang. China Southern operates a daily return flight between Xi'an Xianyang Airport and Dunhuang Airport. Air China flies between Beijing and Dunhuang once a day. 6. Guangdong: Fortress Towers, Kaiping (广东开平雕楼) Erected mostly in the early 20th century, the fortress towers at Kaiping were built by famously outbound Kaipingers, who brought home the many architectural styles they saw abroad, including Islamic, Roman and even ancient Greek. The towers were built as a display of wealth, and as a practical way of protecting locals from war and theft. Approximately 1,800 fortress towers still stand amid Kaiping's vast rice fields. Kaiping is located 130 kilometers southwest of Guangzhou, the provincial capital of Guangdong. Regular buses are available between Kaiping Bus Terminal and various long-distance bus terminals in Guangzhou. Direct buses and ferries are available between Kaiping and Hong Kong. The tea lover's guide to traveling in China 7. Guangxi: Yangshuo (广西阳朔) When the Chinese long for views of the nation's most scenic hills and rivers, they book a bamboo-boat cruise in Yangshuo. The riverside town in southern China is most famous for its karst hills and traditional fishing-village lifestyle. Downtown is touristy. Visitors can rent bikes and head to the countryside to find a more calming scene: bamboo boats chugging along the river, fishermen setting out with cormorants, farmers toiling in fields with lush peaks soaring high above. Most travelers reach Yangshuo from Guilin. Buses bound for Yangshuo leave every 15 minutes from Guilin Bus Station on Zhongshan Lu and Guilin South Railway Station. The journey takes around 90 minutes. 8. Guizhou: Huangguoshu Waterfall (贵州黄果树瀑布) The highest waterfall in Asia, majestic Huangguoshu "Yellow Fruit Tree" Waterfall plunges a dramatic 77.8 meters across a 101-meter-wide span. It's one of a handful of mammoth waterfalls in the world that's accessible for viewing from almost any angle -- from above, below, front, back, left or right. The best visiting season is June to August, when the water reaches a peak flow of 700 cubic meters per second. The nearest traffic hub to Huangguoshu Waterfall is Huangguoshu Airport. It's about six kilometers away. Major cities connected to Huangguoshu by direct flights include Beijing and Guangzhou. 9. Hainan: Guanyin Statue (海南南山海上观音像) Look beyond the beaches of Sanya to find the world's largest Guanyin statue, erected near Nanshan, China's southernmost mountain. The story goes that the three-sided statue faces mainland China, Taiwan and the rest of the South China Sea -- meaning that the bodhisattva blesses not only China, but the whole world. At 108 meters tall, the figure was raised and enshrined in 2005 and is one of the tallest statues on the planet. The Guanyin Statue is located within Hainan's Nanshan Culture Tourism District, which is some 40 kilometers from downtown Sanya. Shuttle buses are available between Yalong Bay and Nanshan. 10. Hainan: Yalong Bay (海南省亚龙湾) Hainan delivers the best tropical setting in China. Yalong Bay is the pinnacle of this beach getaway. The 7.5-kilometer crescent beach is the most popular and developed stretch of Hainan's southern coastline. It provides all the quintessential experiences of a Southeast Asian holiday and is a haven for water sports warriors, including surfers who sometimes ride uncrowded waves all day. If you visit in July, August, October or during Spring Festival, you'll be surrounded by Chinese families, mostly sporting old-school swimsuits. Yalong Bay is 28 kilometers southeast of Sanya. Sanya Airport operates flights to all major Chinese cities, as well as nine international cities including Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul. MORE: Spectacular, rarely seen images of China's railways 11. Hebei: Chengde Mountain Resort/Rehe Palace (河北承德避暑山庄/热河行宫) A UNESCO World Heritage Site, this mountain resort was once a summer palace used by Qing Dynasty emperors on holiday. Delicate gardens and a 70-meter pagoda remain. Lush grasslands, marvelous mountains and tranquil valleys still make it a cool place to avoid the heat. Shuttle buses depart from Beijing to Chengde hourly during the day, ticket is RMB 50 12. Heilongjiang: Saint Sophia Cathedral, Harbin (黑龙江省哈尔滨市圣索非亚大教堂) The largest Orthodox church in East and Southeast Asia stands in China's most Russian-accented city, Harbin. Russian expats built the 54-meter-tall, 721-square-meter neo-Byzantine structure in the early 20th century as a spiritual symbol for the local Orthodox community after the Russian-Japanese War. The church was used as a warehouse by the Communist Party for about two decades and is now a state-run museum showcasing the city's architecture, art and heritage. 88 Xiulong Jie, Daoli District, Harbin, Heilongjiang 黑龙江省哈尔滨市道里区透笼街88号 13. Henan: Longtan Valley (河南龙潭大峡谷) Nope, you're not in Utah. It's Henan. This 12-kilometer, U-shaped valley marked by a stripe of purplish red quartz sandstone has earned the name, "The No.1 Valley of Narrow Gorges in China." Its steep cliffs, lush vegetation and jagged valley attract sightseers from all over China. The nearest traffic hub to Longtan Valley is Luoyang, a major city in Henan Province. It's about 60 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Luoyang Airport by direct flights include Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and Hong Kong. 14. Hubei: One Incense Pillar, Enshi Canyon (湖北恩施大峡谷一柱香) This is not the profile of Beaker the Muppet's giant Chinese cousin; it's a karst pillar standing between the cliffs and peaks of the 108-kilometer-long Enshi Canyon, China's answer to the Grand Canyon. This incense stick-shaped structure is 150 meters tall, but only 4 meters wide, making it incredible that it stands at all, let alone that it's survived several major earthquakes. Local legend holds that the pillar is a piece of incense given by a deity to the ingenious Tujia people. The residents could light it in times of disaster and the deity would descend to help. Enshi is approximately 230 kilometers west of Yichang, site of the Three Gorges Dam, and 530 kilometers west of Wuhan, the provincial capital of Hubei. Flights are available to Yichang twice a week (40 minutes) and to Wuhan twice a day (80 minutes). MORE: How to explore the other 'great wall' of China 15. Hubei: Shennongjia (湖北神农架) More than 400 people claim to have seen a Bigfoot-like creature among the lush vegetation of Shennongjia over the past century, yet no hard evidence has been found to prove the "yeti's" existence. The 3,200-square-kilometer nature reserve also purports to be "the only well-preserved sub-tropical forest ecosystem in the world's mid-latitudes," with more than 5,000 species of animals and plants. It's home to snub-nosed or golden monkeys (金丝猴), a rare and protected species in China. Wuhan is the nearest major city and traffic hub to Shennongjia. From Wuhan's long-distance bus station at Xinhua Lu, take the daily coach to Xingshan County (兴山县). Then transfer to a mini-bus from Xingshan to Shennongjia. 16. Hunan: Fenghuang (湖南凤凰) These stilted houses are the dream lodgings of Chinese art and literature lovers. Every year, armies of young backpackers flock to the ancient town of Fenghuang (which literally means "Phoenix") for its rich Miao and Tujia ethnic culture. Many also come to pay homage to celebrated Chinese writer Shen Congwen (沈从文), whose novel "Frontier City" put the 1,300-year-old town in limelight. Fenghuang maintains its original layout and architecture, with around 200 residential buildings, 20 streets and 10 winding alleys, all of which date as far back as the Ming dynasty. Fenghuang is 430 kilometers west of Changsha, the provincial capital of Hunan. Long-distance buses are available four times a day from West Changsha Bus Terminal to Fenghuang Bus Terminal for RMB 130. The journey takes nearly four hours. 17. Hunan: Zhangjiajie (湖南张家界) The giant quartz sand pillars of Wulingyuan are said to have been the inspiration for James Cameron's floating mountains on the planet Pandora in his Oscar-winning movie "Avatar." In reality, the Wulingyuan area in Zhangjiajie, a city in Hunan Province in southern China, is home to more than 3,000 of these stone columns. The tallest pillar in the stone forest stands more than 400 meters high. Wulingyuan authorities have renamed one of the pillars "Mount Hallelujah," the name of the main floating peak on Pandora. Zhangjiajie is about 320 kilometers northwest of Changsha, Hunan's provincial capital and the region's main traffic hub. Trains and direct flights are available between Zhangjiajie and many Chinese cities, including Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. 18. Inner Mongolia: Singing Sand Bay (内蒙古响沙湾) The sand is singing, but what's the song? Singing Sand Bay, aka Yinken Sand Bay, is a 110-meter-high dune, 50 kilometers from Baotou, a major city of Inner Mongolia. Sliding off a 45-degree angle, the wind here is said to sing in soft whispers. Batou can be reach from many major cities in China by air, including Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou 19. Jiangsu: Brahma Palace (江苏梵宫) Feng shui and Buddhism have deep influences on China. Both can be found at Brahma Palace. Beneath the foot of Little Lingshan Mountain, and near Taihu Lake and the 88-meter-tall Lingshan Giant Budda, the palace epitomizes Chinese feng shui -- it's surrounded by mountains and water, portending both good fortune and health. Built for the Second World Buddhism Forum in 2009, the Buddhist theme park is filled with luxury, with gold and glamor gilding many surfaces. Major cities connected to Wuxi Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou. Unseen Nanjing: The hidden side of China's ancient capital 20. Jiangxi: Mount Lu (江西庐山) A UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1996, Lushan National Park, with its centerpiece of Mount Lu, is more than a tourist attraction. It's a cultural and spiritual symbol of China. Upward of 1,500 famed painters and poets from various periods of ancient and modern China -- Li Bai (李白) of the Tang Dynasty and Xu Zhimo (徐志摩) in 1920s, to name two -- have traveled here to be inspired by Lu. Masterpiece poems are engraved in calligraphy on the mountain cliffs. The nearest traffic hub is Mount Lu Airport. It's about 10 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Mount Lu Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. 21. Jiangxi: Wuyuan (江西婺源) "One of the most beautiful rural areas in China." That's how Wuyuan (a small county located at the junction of Anhui, Jiangxi and Zhejiang provinces in eastern China) is best known. Colorful blossoms and a relaxed, countrified pace attract hundreds of thousands of visitors each spring. The nearest traffic hub in Wuyuan County is Jingdezhen, a major city in Jiangxi Province. It's about 98 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Jingdezhen Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen. 22. Jilin: Heaven Lake, Changbai Mountain (吉林长白山天池) The vodka-clear Heaven Lake is said to resemble a piece of jade surrounded by 16 peaks of the Changbai Mountain National Reserve, near the border of North Korea. With an average depth of 204 meters, it's the deepest lake in China. This is also a hot spot for water monster fans -- in the last two decades China travelers have reported accounts of a lake creature as long as 20 meters. Sunny days here are rare. July to September is the best time to visit. Even then, it can be chilly and wet. The nearest traffic hub to Heaven Lake is Changbai Mountain Airport. It's about 60 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Changbai Mountain Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai and Shenyang. 23. Liaoning: Benxi Water Cave (辽宁本溪水洞) Stalagmites and stalactites? You never know when those school lessons will come in handy. Exploding with color, the Benxi Water Cave was formed more than five million years ago. Today its main sections are a "drought cave" and a "water cave." A dramatic array of stalagmites and stalactites are covered in vibrant greens, yellows and reds. The water cave contains the world's longest underground river at 5.8 kilometers. Of this, only 2.8 kilometers are accessible by boat. The drought cave is rather small. Only 300 meters are open to the public. The temperature in the cave remains a constant 10 C. Sweaters and pants are highly recommended. MORE: Librairie Avant-Garde: China's most beautiful bookshop 24. Liaoning: Golden Pebble Beach National Resort, Dalian (辽宁金石滩) Along 30 kilometers of Golden Pebble Beach (it's also known as the Jinshitan Scenic Area) just outside downtown Dalian, ancient rock formations have been twisted by time and elements into bizarre replicas of animals -- camels, monkeys, tigers, even dinosaurs. The largest is a 40-meter-high rock named after a "dinosaur who explores the sea." It's said to resemble a giant dinosaur bathing in the sea. Golden Pebble Beach is in the northeast of Dalian City. It can be reach by Dalian's light rail which runs regularly 25. Ningxia: Sand Lake (宁夏沙湖) More than 1 million migrating birds of various species stop over at this wetland in Ningxia twice a year (April-May, September-October). The rest of the year, around 200 species of birds call the wetlands home, including a large number of protected species, such as black cranes and the Chinese merganser. The area is also the reported habitat of giant salamanders that grow as long as 1.6 meters. Desert, water and reed mashes blend in this 80-square-kilometer area, which forms a unique geographic phenomenon called sand lake ("sha hu" in Mandarin). Sand Lake is 56 kilometers north of Yinchuan, the provincial capital of Ningxia. Buses are available daily between Sand Lake and Yinchuan's North Gate Bus Terminal. 26. Qinghai: Qinghai Lake (青海省青海湖) China's largest inland saltwater lake. This view is one of the great draws of Qinghai Province in China's far northwest every June and July. The lake sits 3,205 meters above sea level and is a three-hour bus ride from the nearest traffic hub of Xining. Few tourists make it to this part of China to enjoy this oil painting of a scene, not counting packs of mad cyclists who come for Tour de Qinghai Lake International Cycling Race every summer. Tour companies in Xining organize trips to Qinghai Lake. Buses bound for Qihai Lake are available every morning (7:45 a.m.) from Xining Train Station. MORE: An architectural wonderland hidden in a Chinese forest 27. Shaanxi: Xi'an City Wall (陕西西安城墙) In addition to the world-renowned Great Wall, the city wall belonging to Xi'an, first constructed more than 2,000 years ago, also represents the power and wisdom of the Middle Kingdom in its ancient heyday. What exists of the wall today are remains from 1370, when during the Ming Dynasty the fortification was 13.7 kilometers long, 12 meters high and between 15 to 18 meters wide. It now surrounds downtown Xi'an. Spend three or four hours biking along the wall and you'll get great views of China's old capital city. Climb up the city wall from Yongning Gate (永宁门) on Nan Jie in Xi'an's Xincheng District. 28. Shandong: Trestle Bridge, Qingdao (山东青岛栈桥) So that's why they call it the Yellow Sea. As old as the city of Qingdao, the Trestle Bridge has sat astride the Yellow Sea since 1892. First built for the reception of Li Hongzhang (李鸿章), a prominent statesman during the Qing Dynasty, Trestle Bridge has since become a symbol of the city. Walking the 440-meter-long bridge is a great way to enjoy breezes coming off the sea. At one end is Huilange Pagoda, a classic beauty that hosts historic and cultural exhibits throughout the year. Seaside Resort, 11 Jingshan Lu, Qingdao, Shandong Province (山东省青岛市京山路11号海滨风景区) 29. Shanxi: Hukou Waterfall (山西壶口瀑布) According to some, the most magnificent waterfall in the country. As the largest waterfall on the Yellow River, and second largest in China, Hukou Waterfall is known around the country for once gracing the RMB 50 note. At 20 meters high and 30 meters wide, the fall is located on the border of Shanxi and Shaanxi provinces. The May to October flood season is the best time to visit, when water flow and velocity increase, sometime swelling the fall into a 50-meter-wide spectacular scene. The nearest traffic hub to Hukou Waterfall is Yuncheng Airport. It's about 82 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Yuncheng Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. Yellow River Hukou Waterfall Scenic Area, Hukou Town, Ji County, Linfen, Shanxi Province (山西省临汾市吉县壶口镇黄河壶口瀑布景区) 30. Shanxi: Yungang Grottoes (山西云冈石窟) This 1,500-year-old site is an important Buddhist landmark. It houses 252 caves and more than 51,000 Buddha statues, most carved between the fifth and sixth century during the North Wei Dynasty. The sandstone statues -- the tallest stands 17 meters, the tiniest two centimeters -- combine multiple styles of Buddhist art, including Chinese, Gandhara and Persian. Grottoes 16 through 20 are the five best preserved caves. They shelter five Buddhas modeled after five Wei emperors. Yungang Grottoes are 18 kilometers west of Datong city. Direct flights are available between Datong and Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. MORE: What happens when all of China goes on vacation at once 31. Sichuan: Hailuogou Glacier National Park (四川海螺沟) Legend holds that only the lucky will be treated to this view. Also known as "Conch Gully," Hailuogou park sits at the eastern foot of Gonggar Mountain in southwest China's Sichuan province. According to legend, the gully was a wasteland until a renowned Tibetan monk played his treasured conch there and attracted many animals, who became so enchanted with the place that they took up residence. To memorialize the monk and his conch, the gully ever after became known as Conch Gully. The magnificent glacier, which drives through woodlands, cliffs, peaks and gullies, is accessible all year round. It appears at its best in early morning sunshine. More than 10 hot springs are spread beneath the glacier. Two are open to the public, including one at an elevation of 2,600 meters. The nearest traffic hub to Hailuogou Glacier National Park is Chengdu, capital city of Sichuan province. It's about 300 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Chengdu Airport by direct flights include Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and Xi'an. 32. Sichuan: Jiuzhaigou (四川九寨沟) This massive lake is the crown jewel of Jiuzhaigou, a region full of stunning alpine lakes and waterfalls. The lake is filled with incredible water that changes color throughout the day and year. The color comes from the reflection of the surrounding landscape, as well as algae and calcified rocks at the bottom of the shallow lake. Autumn is the best time to visit, when the lake surface appears as a multihued painter's palette. Direct flights are available between Jiuzhaigou's Jiuhuang Airport and major Chinese cities including Beijing, Shanghai, Xi'an and Chengdu. The nearest traffic hub to Jiuzhaigou is Chengdu, the provincial capital of Sichuan, which is one hour by air or 11 hours by bus south of the lake. 33. Tibet: Potala Palace (西藏布达拉宫) The former winter home of the Dalai Lama and seat of the former Tibetan ruling government, this nine-story attraction stands 3,700 meters above sea level, making it the highest palace on the planet. The Potala Palace's current incarnation is a state museum. More than 1,000 rooms remain, as well as the original layout of the White Palace (living quarters of the Dalai Lama) and the Red Palace (once a spiritual center of Tibetan Buddhism). All visitors to the palace are restricted to a one-hour stay. Potala Palace issues a limited number of tickets every day. To secure a ticket during peak season (May 1-October 31), independent travelers are advised to pick up a ticket coupon outside the palace a day before their visit. 34. Xinjiang: Lake Karakul (新疆喀拉库勒湖) This stunning view is the reward after a thrilling ride over one of the world's most dangerous roads, Karakoram Highway. The many "landslide site" signposts along the way haven't stopped devoted travelers, who mostly set out from Kashgar (喀什), the westernmost city in China. Standing 3,600 meters above sea level on the Pamir Plateau, the glacier lake's water reflects the surrounding mountains like a huge mirror. Best time to go is May to October. No public transportation is available between Kashgar and Karakul, but plenty of tour companies and hotels in Kashgar organize small groups and customized trips to the area. The lake is about four hours from Kashgar by road. Palace offers rare insights into China's modern history 35. Xinjiang: Nalati Grassland (新疆那拉提草原) This sub-alpine meadow is so distinct in northwest China that, according to legend, one of Genghis Khan's troops was so awed by its color that he gave the area the name "Nalati" (meaning "place where the sun emerges" in Mongolian). The prairie is a great place to experience Kazak customs. Locals still play traditional sports, live in yurts and raise falcons to hunt for the family dinners. Best time to go is July to October. China Southern operates a daily return flight between Urumqi and Nalati. 36. Yunnan: Three Pagodas, Dali (云南省大理崇圣寺三塔) These Buddhist towers are the chief landmark of Dali, an ancient town in China's southwest Yunnan Province. The main tower was first built in mid-ninth century in the hope to easing regular flooding. At 69 meters and 16 stories high, it was a "skyscraper" for the Tang Dynasty and is still the tallest pagoda in China. Each of it tiers is decorated with Buddha statues. The other two identical towers stand 42 meters and were erected almost a century later. The three holy structures form an equilateral triangle. Shutterbugs can get great shots from many different angles. The three pagodas are just north of downtown Dali. Direct flights (30 minutes) and train (eight hours) are available between Dali and Kunming, the provincial capital of Yunnan. 37. Yunnan: Pudacuo National Park, Shangri-la (云南香格里拉普达措国家公园) Pudacuo is the first national park in China to meet the criteria set by The World Conservation Union, a major global environmental organization. More than 20% of the country's plant species and around one-third of its mammal and bird species call this wetland plateau home. Photographers especially love the area's many types of orchids and China's highly endangered black-necked cranes. In Bita Lake in the park, the Bita double-lip fish is an ancient fish dating back 2.5 million years. Pudacuo is 22 kilometers east of Shangri-la, a tourist town in northwest Yunnan Province. 38. Zhejiang: Nanxi River (浙江楠溪江) With its mountain backdrop and shores lined with ancient houses, the Nanxi River inevitably became the cradle of classic Chinese water-and-ink painting. By drifting down the Nanxi River on a bamboo craft, travelers can enjoy views of locals doing laundry along the river and fishermen employing traditional methods of using cormorants to catch fish. The xiangyu is a rare freshwater fish unique to the Nanxi. The nearest traffic hub to Nanxi River is Wenzhou, a major city in Zhejiang Province. It's about 23 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Wenzhou Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Hangzhou. There are nine established drifting routes on the river, ranging from one to 10 kilometers in length. China's cliff-clinging glass skywalk opens to public 39. Zhejiang: Thousand Island Lake (浙江千岛湖) In the 1950s, the Chinese government evacuated and flooded 928 square kilometers of villages, plains and hills to build a reservoir. The indirect result was a surreal view. Around 1,078 islands dot the lake. Outdoors activities are the draw of this ginormous recreation and resort area -- speedboating, water skiing, animal-themed island-hopping, mountain climbing. Travelers can also find excellent seafood and everything from budget cabins to five-star hotels. Direct buses run from Hangzhou West Bus Station to Thousand Island Lake Town. Buses depart every 30 minutes -- then take a taxi or bus to the scenic area. 40. Zhejiang: Yunhe Rice Terrace (浙江云和梯田) "Here's an idea. Let's make farming even more difficult." Literally meaning "peaceful clouds," Yunhe and its surrounding rice terraces have been home to farmers for at least 1,000 years. Winding in a maze up mountainsides from 200 to 1,400 meters, individual terraces can be constructed of as many as 700 layers. Rainy days are the best time to visit, when steam from evaporating river water floats through the terraces, creating a kind of agricultural dreamscape. Yunhe County is 67 kilometers southwest of Lishui city. Shuttle buses between Yunhe and Lishui are available at Lishui Train Station. To get to Lishui, take a train from big cities including Shanghai, Hangzhou and Beijing. Editor's note: This article was previously published in 2012. It was reformatted and republished in 2017. Quickly catch up on the day's news (CNN)Here's what you might have missed Wednesday on CNN: -- The Justice Department is preparing to announce as early as next week the completion of the Mueller report, according to people familiar with the plans. -- Haiti's leader has accused eight men, including five Americans, of being "terrorists" on a mission to destabilize his government. The claim comes as Prime Minister Jean-Henry Ceant and President Jovenel Moise face calls to resign. -- A "potent winter storm" is sweeping across the US. Here's what regions are being affected. -- Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen has sent a warning to Asia in the face of mounting aggression from Beijing. -- A Colorado man accused of beating the mother of his child to death tried to persuade his new girlfriend three times to kill her, according to court testimony. -- This small rodent is the world's first mammal known to have become extinct due to human-induced climate change, the Australian government says. -- The abuse of women by priests in one Catholic order was so bad that a pope intervened. These are the women's stories. -- Chicago detectives investigating an alleged attack on Jussie Smollett are working to obtain the actor's financial records, a high-ranking police source says. -- Samsung's new Galaxy S10 lineup features foldable phones, 5G, and phones that charge each other. -- Ariana Grande ties the Beatles and makes chart history.  Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen will run for re-election in 2020 Taipei (CNN)Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen says she will run for re-election as the island's leader in 2020, despite her flagging popularity and growing hostility from Beijing. Tsai revealed her plans Tuesday in an exclusive interview with CNN's Matt Rivers while aboard her presidential plane, saying she wanted to "complete" her vision for Taiwan. "It's natural that any sitting president wants to do more for the country and wants to finish things on his or her agenda," Tsai said. Tsai was the first woman to be elected leader of the self-governed democratic island in 2016, sweeping to power amid promises to overhaul the economy and lessen Taiwan's reliance on mainland China. But two years later, her Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) suffered bruising losses during local elections in 2018, prompting her to resign as chairwoman of the party. Across the island, her party lost by almost 10% of the vote. Since then, she has faced calls from senior members of her own party to not seek re-election. But despite the criticism, Tsai told CNN she is "confident" in her ability to win. "This is something I have prepared for," said Tsai. "It's again another challenge. Being president, you're not short of challenges. At good times you have challenges of one sort, and in bad times you have challenges of another sort." Strained relations with Beijing Despite being self-governed since the end of China's civil war in 1949, Beijing still views Taiwan as a renegade province and part of the People's Republic of China. Tsai's predecessor, Ma Ying-jeou, forged close ties with Beijing and even met with Chinese President Xi Jinping in a historic 2015 meeting in Singapore. But relations turned frosty following the election of Tsai, whose party has historically advocated for self-determination. The Chinese government, under Xi, has turned up the pressure on Tsai and her administration both economically and politically. Since 2016, the Chinese military has regularly conducted large-scale military exercises around the island, including sailing the Liaoning aircraft carrier through the Taiwan Strait. The Taiwan military has responded with anti-invasion drills, including a massive show of force on Taiwan's west coast on January 17. In a January speech, Xi made a renewed call for Taiwan to rejoin mainland China, telling it to embrace "peaceful reunification" and warning independence was a "dead end." But in her own New Year's address, Tsai told Beijing to "face the reality of the existence of the Republic of China," the official name for Taiwan. "Respect the commitment of the 23 million people of Taiwan to freedom and democracy," she said. Domestic issues Despite the strained ties, Tsai said cross-strait relations weren't a key factor in her party's setback at last year's elections. Tsai said she blamed her party's bruising defeat on what she calls a difficult reform agenda she has pushed since taking office. Her efforts to promote pension reform and push for equal rights for the island's LGBT community have become divisive issues in Taiwan, fueling protests across the island. "You get attacks, you get criticism, the people don't feel the result of the reform so much when you've just started," Tsai said. Tsai will face a difficult re-election bid and could be forced to fend off challengers both in her own party and the Kuomintang (KMT), the main opposition party that traditionally favors closer relations with mainland China. Some polls have Tsai down as much as 30% against potential Kuomintang presidential nominee Eric Chu, who she defeated in 2016. Asked if there was anything she regretted from her first term in office, Tsai said she felt she had spent too little time talking with voters in her first two years in power. "I spent too much time in managing the government affairs and I spent a lot of time making foreign visits to our diplomatic allies," she said. "Many people thought I was a bit detached from them." CNN's Ben Westcott contributed to this article from Hong Kong. Facing an aggressive Beijing, Taiwan's president issues a warning to the world Taipei, Taiwan (CNN)Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen has sent out a warning to Asia in the face of mounting aggression from Beijing. In an exclusive interview with CNN, Tsai said the military threat posed by China was growing "every day" in line with a more assertive foreign policy under its President Xi Jinping. "If it's Taiwan today, people should ask who's next? Any country in the region -- if it no longer wants to submit to the will of China, they would face similar military threats," said Tsai. Taiwan and China are separated by fewer than 130 kilometers (81 miles) at their closest point. For seven decades, the two have maintained an uneasy truce following their split at the end of a destructive civil war in 1949. Unification is a long-term aim for China's ruling Communist Party, which considers self-governed democratic Taiwan -- an island of 23 million people -- to be a renegade province. But it was the election of Tsai and her historically pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) in 2016 which sent relations between the two governments spiraling. Beijing has placed mounting diplomatic and economic pressure on Taiwan, conducting live-fire drills in nearby seas and flew H-6K bombers and surveillance aircraft around the island. "With China becoming increasingly strong and ambitious, we are faced with growing threats," Tsai said. "Our challenge is whether our independent existence, security, prosperity and democracy can be maintained. This is the biggest issue for Taiwan." Taiwan's unofficial ally the United States has for decades acted as the island's security guarantee against the threat of Chinese military action. But when asked directly, Tsai wouldn't be drawn on whether she believed US President Donald Trump would come to her aid. Instead the Taiwan leader said she is focused on strengthening Taiwan's own defense capabilities in the face of an "imbalanced war," as China's military modernizes. "We have to be prepared at all times," she said. CNN has reached out to the China's Taiwan Affairs Office for comment. 'Growing threats' As the first woman to be elected Taiwan's leader, Tsai was carried into office on a swell of anti-Beijing sentiment following attempts by the Kuomintang party to move closer to China. But her popularity has fallen steadily in the face of domestic opposition to her policies and a struggling Taiwan economy battling to keep up with the mainland. In November Tsai's DPP suffered a bruising defeat in local elections, losing by as much as 10% across the island. Tsai said the 2018 result was due to what she called a "challenging" domestic reform agenda. "The people don't feel the result of the reform so much when you've just started," she said. The setback has not deterred Tsai who revealed to CNN she would stand for re-election in 2020. "It's natural that any sitting president wants to do more for the country." China's Xi is unlikely to welcome a second term for Tsai. Since she came to power, the Chinese government has increasingly tried to exert pressure on Taiwan, known officially as the Republic of China, to unify with the People's Republic of China, as the mainland is officially known. In January, Xi Jinping called for the "peaceful reunification" of China and Taiwan in a landmark speech, warning that Taiwan independence was a "dead end." "We make no promise to renounce the use of force," the Chinese leader said. Tsai said President Xi's January speech had caused concern within Taiwan. She said the island refused to become another Hong Kong or Macau -- both semi-autonomous cities under Beijing's rule. "(The speech) has alarmed us that Taiwan's independent existence may be changed," she said. But Tsai said the threats and intimidation out of Beijing are counter-productive to Xi's goals, and serve only to push the island further away from the Communist Party and strengthen support for democracy. "China may feel such (pressure) would create a sense of failure for people in Taiwan and deal a blow on our morale. But every such move has only further upset and alienated Taiwanese people," she said. "China's behavior has only backfired in Taiwan." Warmer ties with Trump In January Taiwan held military drills intended to ready its troops in the event of an invasion from the mainland. Photos showed dramatic images of helicopters and artillery launchers conducting live-fire exercises. Tsai said she was strengthening Taiwan's military capabilities in the face of China's rapid modernization. She said Taiwan was "on alert 24/7" for the first sign of a Chinese strike. "What we are expecting is, after withstanding the first wave of Chinese attacks ourselves, the rest of the world would stand up to exert strong pressure on China," she said. While Tsai did not say it specifically, it's likely any pressure exerted on China will come from Washington. For years, the United States has provided a tacit guarantee of protection from Beijing. Under Trump, the relationship between Washington and Taipei has grown closer with expanded weapons sales and greater vocal support from US politicians. In 2018 Trump signed into law the Taiwan Travel Act, encouraging "visits between officials of the United States and Taiwan at all levels." Months later, the US approved the sale of submarine parts to Taiwan. In June, the US opened a new, $255 million de facto embassy on the island, known as the American Institute in Taiwan. Many leaders around the world have criticized President Trump for focusing on domestic US interests at the expense of the international community but Tsai said she didn't see it that way. "Any president has to take multiple factors into consideration when making decisions, especially domestic decisions. That's why President Trump has been emphasizing 'America First'," she said. Trump broke decades of protocol and took a brief congratulatory call from Tsai upon his election in 2016, but the two have yet to meet in person. There is an outside chance that could change this year. A group of US lawmakers, led by Republican senator Cory Gardner, have asked US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to invite Tsai to address a joint meeting of the US Congress. But Tsai declined to say whether she would accept an invitation to speak, a move that should it go ahead would be sure to infuriate China. "It's not a simple question of invitation and acceptance," said Tsai. "Whether or not to go deliver a speech in Washington would depend on whether such a move benefits Taiwan, our relations with the US and regional stability." The US has been careful, at least publicly, to adhere to a so-called "one China" policy, acknowledging Beijing's assertion that Taiwan is part of China, as well as the People's Republic's status as the sole legitimate government of China. It is this policy that sees the US base its embassy in Beijing, but not in Taipei. But Washington has also maintained deliberate ambiguity on the status of Taiwan, only encouraging both sides to engage in dialogue to settle their long-running disputes. Caught in the middle Trump's foreign policy hasn't all been good news for Taiwan. As the US President tries to drive down the trade deficit, Taiwan has become caught in the middle of a US-China trade war. "There's a lot of trade and economic flow between Taiwan and the US as well as investment and trade with China," said Tsai. "We have to make sure that we can lessen the impact of any kind of uncertainty on Taiwan's economy." Tsai said with no clear end to the trade dispute in sight, she was taking actions to protect Taiwan, including government spending to stimulate domestic consumption and investment. "So that the growth of our economy can be driven by domestic demand instead of an over reliance on exports," said Tsai. But while the trade war may cause difficulties for Taiwan's exports, it could present an opportunity for the island's tech sector. The US is currently ramping up its opposition to Chinese technology, in particular the telecoms giant Huawei, over concerns of potential security threats. Both US Vice President Mike Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have warned countries that using Chinese 5G mobile phone technology will make it more difficult to work with the US. Tsai said that unlike Chinese products, other countries had no such security concerns about Taiwan's technology. "Taiwan is a very secure location for the manufacture of such products," she said. "We manufacture and design a lot of high-tech products such as semiconductors and we rank in the front in terms of worldwide production." Taiwan faces down China Throughout her interview, Tsai painted the picture of Taiwan as an underdog facing down the growing might of Beijing, the first line of defense for the liberal, democratic world order. "If a vibrant democracy that champions universal values and follows international rules were destroyed by China, it would be a huge setback for global democracy," she said. Set against that backdrop, military tensions between Taiwan, China and the US have continued to rise. On January 2019, Washington sent two guided missile destroyers, the USS McCampbell and USNS Walter S. Diehl, through the Taiwan Strait in a message of defiance to Beijing. In February, China's People's Liberation Army issued a propaganda video juxtaposing images of Chinese jets and bombers with famous landmarks across Taiwan. In reply, the Taiwan military posted dramatic footage of soldiers, tanks and explosions, followed by a simple message -- "On standby 24/7." Tsai said China wants to become a "global hegemony" and if Xi's attention turns to expansion outside of the country's borders, Taiwan would be "first to be hit." "I believe this is not just an issue of Taiwan under attack, but a reflection of China's willingness to use force for its expansionist policy," she said. "It's not just Taiwan's interests at stake, it's the whole region's or even the whole world's." CNN's Matt Rivers and Steven Jiang reported from Taiwan. CNN's Ben Westcott wrote from Hong Kong. 40 beautiful places to visit in China Almost all of us are familiar with the great man-made attractions in China: The Forbidden City in Beijing. The Terracotta Warriors of Xi'an. Shanghai's skyscraper forest in Pudong. For a country of its massive size and varied geography, however, it's surprising how relatively few people outside China appreciate the extent of the country's other destinations, many of them natural wonders to rival any in the world. Is it possible to limit a list of China's superlative attractions to a mere 40? Not really. But a photo memory card goes only so far. And, as this story illustrates, it's impossible to stop clicking once you get a camera in front of some of China's most beautiful places to visit. The list is in alphabetical order: 1. Anhui: Hongcun Ancient Village (安徽宏村) The 900-year-old village of Hongcun has long drawn in-the-know Chinese visitors, who love its tranquil vibe and distinctive architecture. The striking Huangshan mountain backdrop (see No. 2) doesn't hurt, either. Its classic structures, Moon Lake and picturesque locals have been an inspiration for art students for decades. Walking the narrow lanes paved with quartzite and seeing farmers working in rice fields, with the reflection of ancient houses in the lake, should provide enough material to get you started on your own visual masterpiece. Hongcun Village is roughly 70 kilometers northwest of the city of Huangshan in Anhui Province. Major cities connected to Huangshan Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Xi'an. 2. Anhui: Mount Huangshan (安徽黄山) A UNESCO World Heritage Site set amidst "the loveliest mountains of China," Mount Huangshan, aka Mount Yellow, is a once-in-a-lifetime trek for many Chinese. The 1,863-meter mountain is renowned for its oddly shaped pines, spectacular rock formations, hot springs and seas of misty and melancholy clouds. A trip here provides a mountain of feeling. Major cities connected to Huangshan Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Xi'an. 3. Fujian: Mount Wuyi (福建武夷山) A major landmark in southeast China and a UNESCO World Heritage Site, Mount Wuyi was the setting for the development and spread of neo-Confucianism, influential in East Asia since the 11th century. Bamboo raft drifting in the Nine Bend River (lower gorge) is a popular activity among visitors. The two-hour, eight-kilometer trips provide grand views of Mount Wuyi. It's the best way to take in the serene beauty of the smooth peaks and clear water. Mount Wuyi is about 350 kilometers northwest of Fuzhou, the provincial capital of Fujian. Major cities connected to Fuzhou Airport by direct flights include Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and Xi'an. 4. Fujian: Xiapu Mudflat (福建霞浦) Yes, a humble mudflat is a favorite destination of Chinese photographers. A small region along the southeast China coastline, Xiapu nevertheless has the largest mudflat in the country, encompassing 40 square kilometers and more than 400 kilometers of coastline. Along its tiger-striped beaches, bamboo structures and poles, buoys and fishing vessels provide human counterpoints to the area's natural beauty. Admission fee: Free The nearest hub of Xiapu Mudflat is Fuzhou, provincial capital of Fujian. It's about 175 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Fuzhou Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Xi'an. MORE: Is Xinjiang province the best-kept travel secret in China? 5. Gansu: Echoing Sand Mountain and Crescent Lake, Dunhuang (甘肃省敦煌市鸣沙山和月牙泉) Echoing Sand Mountain is a series of dunes surrounding Crescent Lake. Named for its distinctive shape and aural characteristics, its echoes can be heard as the wind blows over the dunes. Visitors ride camels up the dunes, which rise to 250 meters. With gardens blooming on its banks, Crescent Lake offers a lovely visual counterpoint to all that sand. Echoing Sand Mountain and Crescent Lake is six kilometers south of Dunhuang. China Southern operates a daily return flight between Xi'an Xianyang Airport and Dunhuang Airport. Air China flies between Beijing and Dunhuang once a day. 6. Guangdong: Fortress Towers, Kaiping (广东开平雕楼) Erected mostly in the early 20th century, the fortress towers at Kaiping were built by famously outbound Kaipingers, who brought home the many architectural styles they saw abroad, including Islamic, Roman and even ancient Greek. The towers were built as a display of wealth, and as a practical way of protecting locals from war and theft. Approximately 1,800 fortress towers still stand amid Kaiping's vast rice fields. Kaiping is located 130 kilometers southwest of Guangzhou, the provincial capital of Guangdong. Regular buses are available between Kaiping Bus Terminal and various long-distance bus terminals in Guangzhou. Direct buses and ferries are available between Kaiping and Hong Kong. The tea lover's guide to traveling in China 7. Guangxi: Yangshuo (广西阳朔) When the Chinese long for views of the nation's most scenic hills and rivers, they book a bamboo-boat cruise in Yangshuo. The riverside town in southern China is most famous for its karst hills and traditional fishing-village lifestyle. Downtown is touristy. Visitors can rent bikes and head to the countryside to find a more calming scene: bamboo boats chugging along the river, fishermen setting out with cormorants, farmers toiling in fields with lush peaks soaring high above. Most travelers reach Yangshuo from Guilin. Buses bound for Yangshuo leave every 15 minutes from Guilin Bus Station on Zhongshan Lu and Guilin South Railway Station. The journey takes around 90 minutes. 8. Guizhou: Huangguoshu Waterfall (贵州黄果树瀑布) The highest waterfall in Asia, majestic Huangguoshu "Yellow Fruit Tree" Waterfall plunges a dramatic 77.8 meters across a 101-meter-wide span. It's one of a handful of mammoth waterfalls in the world that's accessible for viewing from almost any angle -- from above, below, front, back, left or right. The best visiting season is June to August, when the water reaches a peak flow of 700 cubic meters per second. The nearest traffic hub to Huangguoshu Waterfall is Huangguoshu Airport. It's about six kilometers away. Major cities connected to Huangguoshu by direct flights include Beijing and Guangzhou. 9. Hainan: Guanyin Statue (海南南山海上观音像) Look beyond the beaches of Sanya to find the world's largest Guanyin statue, erected near Nanshan, China's southernmost mountain. The story goes that the three-sided statue faces mainland China, Taiwan and the rest of the South China Sea -- meaning that the bodhisattva blesses not only China, but the whole world. At 108 meters tall, the figure was raised and enshrined in 2005 and is one of the tallest statues on the planet. The Guanyin Statue is located within Hainan's Nanshan Culture Tourism District, which is some 40 kilometers from downtown Sanya. Shuttle buses are available between Yalong Bay and Nanshan. 10. Hainan: Yalong Bay (海南省亚龙湾) Hainan delivers the best tropical setting in China. Yalong Bay is the pinnacle of this beach getaway. The 7.5-kilometer crescent beach is the most popular and developed stretch of Hainan's southern coastline. It provides all the quintessential experiences of a Southeast Asian holiday and is a haven for water sports warriors, including surfers who sometimes ride uncrowded waves all day. If you visit in July, August, October or during Spring Festival, you'll be surrounded by Chinese families, mostly sporting old-school swimsuits. Yalong Bay is 28 kilometers southeast of Sanya. Sanya Airport operates flights to all major Chinese cities, as well as nine international cities including Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul. MORE: Spectacular, rarely seen images of China's railways 11. Hebei: Chengde Mountain Resort/Rehe Palace (河北承德避暑山庄/热河行宫) A UNESCO World Heritage Site, this mountain resort was once a summer palace used by Qing Dynasty emperors on holiday. Delicate gardens and a 70-meter pagoda remain. Lush grasslands, marvelous mountains and tranquil valleys still make it a cool place to avoid the heat. Shuttle buses depart from Beijing to Chengde hourly during the day, ticket is RMB 50 12. Heilongjiang: Saint Sophia Cathedral, Harbin (黑龙江省哈尔滨市圣索非亚大教堂) The largest Orthodox church in East and Southeast Asia stands in China's most Russian-accented city, Harbin. Russian expats built the 54-meter-tall, 721-square-meter neo-Byzantine structure in the early 20th century as a spiritual symbol for the local Orthodox community after the Russian-Japanese War. The church was used as a warehouse by the Communist Party for about two decades and is now a state-run museum showcasing the city's architecture, art and heritage. 88 Xiulong Jie, Daoli District, Harbin, Heilongjiang 黑龙江省哈尔滨市道里区透笼街88号 13. Henan: Longtan Valley (河南龙潭大峡谷) Nope, you're not in Utah. It's Henan. This 12-kilometer, U-shaped valley marked by a stripe of purplish red quartz sandstone has earned the name, "The No.1 Valley of Narrow Gorges in China." Its steep cliffs, lush vegetation and jagged valley attract sightseers from all over China. The nearest traffic hub to Longtan Valley is Luoyang, a major city in Henan Province. It's about 60 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Luoyang Airport by direct flights include Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and Hong Kong. 14. Hubei: One Incense Pillar, Enshi Canyon (湖北恩施大峡谷一柱香) This is not the profile of Beaker the Muppet's giant Chinese cousin; it's a karst pillar standing between the cliffs and peaks of the 108-kilometer-long Enshi Canyon, China's answer to the Grand Canyon. This incense stick-shaped structure is 150 meters tall, but only 4 meters wide, making it incredible that it stands at all, let alone that it's survived several major earthquakes. Local legend holds that the pillar is a piece of incense given by a deity to the ingenious Tujia people. The residents could light it in times of disaster and the deity would descend to help. Enshi is approximately 230 kilometers west of Yichang, site of the Three Gorges Dam, and 530 kilometers west of Wuhan, the provincial capital of Hubei. Flights are available to Yichang twice a week (40 minutes) and to Wuhan twice a day (80 minutes). MORE: How to explore the other 'great wall' of China 15. Hubei: Shennongjia (湖北神农架) More than 400 people claim to have seen a Bigfoot-like creature among the lush vegetation of Shennongjia over the past century, yet no hard evidence has been found to prove the "yeti's" existence. The 3,200-square-kilometer nature reserve also purports to be "the only well-preserved sub-tropical forest ecosystem in the world's mid-latitudes," with more than 5,000 species of animals and plants. It's home to snub-nosed or golden monkeys (金丝猴), a rare and protected species in China. Wuhan is the nearest major city and traffic hub to Shennongjia. From Wuhan's long-distance bus station at Xinhua Lu, take the daily coach to Xingshan County (兴山县). Then transfer to a mini-bus from Xingshan to Shennongjia. 16. Hunan: Fenghuang (湖南凤凰) These stilted houses are the dream lodgings of Chinese art and literature lovers. Every year, armies of young backpackers flock to the ancient town of Fenghuang (which literally means "Phoenix") for its rich Miao and Tujia ethnic culture. Many also come to pay homage to celebrated Chinese writer Shen Congwen (沈从文), whose novel "Frontier City" put the 1,300-year-old town in limelight. Fenghuang maintains its original layout and architecture, with around 200 residential buildings, 20 streets and 10 winding alleys, all of which date as far back as the Ming dynasty. Fenghuang is 430 kilometers west of Changsha, the provincial capital of Hunan. Long-distance buses are available four times a day from West Changsha Bus Terminal to Fenghuang Bus Terminal for RMB 130. The journey takes nearly four hours. 17. Hunan: Zhangjiajie (湖南张家界) The giant quartz sand pillars of Wulingyuan are said to have been the inspiration for James Cameron's floating mountains on the planet Pandora in his Oscar-winning movie "Avatar." In reality, the Wulingyuan area in Zhangjiajie, a city in Hunan Province in southern China, is home to more than 3,000 of these stone columns. The tallest pillar in the stone forest stands more than 400 meters high. Wulingyuan authorities have renamed one of the pillars "Mount Hallelujah," the name of the main floating peak on Pandora. Zhangjiajie is about 320 kilometers northwest of Changsha, Hunan's provincial capital and the region's main traffic hub. Trains and direct flights are available between Zhangjiajie and many Chinese cities, including Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. 18. Inner Mongolia: Singing Sand Bay (内蒙古响沙湾) The sand is singing, but what's the song? Singing Sand Bay, aka Yinken Sand Bay, is a 110-meter-high dune, 50 kilometers from Baotou, a major city of Inner Mongolia. Sliding off a 45-degree angle, the wind here is said to sing in soft whispers. Batou can be reach from many major cities in China by air, including Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou 19. Jiangsu: Brahma Palace (江苏梵宫) Feng shui and Buddhism have deep influences on China. Both can be found at Brahma Palace. Beneath the foot of Little Lingshan Mountain, and near Taihu Lake and the 88-meter-tall Lingshan Giant Budda, the palace epitomizes Chinese feng shui -- it's surrounded by mountains and water, portending both good fortune and health. Built for the Second World Buddhism Forum in 2009, the Buddhist theme park is filled with luxury, with gold and glamor gilding many surfaces. Major cities connected to Wuxi Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou. Unseen Nanjing: The hidden side of China's ancient capital 20. Jiangxi: Mount Lu (江西庐山) A UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1996, Lushan National Park, with its centerpiece of Mount Lu, is more than a tourist attraction. It's a cultural and spiritual symbol of China. Upward of 1,500 famed painters and poets from various periods of ancient and modern China -- Li Bai (李白) of the Tang Dynasty and Xu Zhimo (徐志摩) in 1920s, to name two -- have traveled here to be inspired by Lu. Masterpiece poems are engraved in calligraphy on the mountain cliffs. The nearest traffic hub is Mount Lu Airport. It's about 10 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Mount Lu Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. 21. Jiangxi: Wuyuan (江西婺源) "One of the most beautiful rural areas in China." That's how Wuyuan (a small county located at the junction of Anhui, Jiangxi and Zhejiang provinces in eastern China) is best known. Colorful blossoms and a relaxed, countrified pace attract hundreds of thousands of visitors each spring. The nearest traffic hub in Wuyuan County is Jingdezhen, a major city in Jiangxi Province. It's about 98 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Jingdezhen Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen. 22. Jilin: Heaven Lake, Changbai Mountain (吉林长白山天池) The vodka-clear Heaven Lake is said to resemble a piece of jade surrounded by 16 peaks of the Changbai Mountain National Reserve, near the border of North Korea. With an average depth of 204 meters, it's the deepest lake in China. This is also a hot spot for water monster fans -- in the last two decades China travelers have reported accounts of a lake creature as long as 20 meters. Sunny days here are rare. July to September is the best time to visit. Even then, it can be chilly and wet. The nearest traffic hub to Heaven Lake is Changbai Mountain Airport. It's about 60 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Changbai Mountain Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai and Shenyang. 23. Liaoning: Benxi Water Cave (辽宁本溪水洞) Stalagmites and stalactites? You never know when those school lessons will come in handy. Exploding with color, the Benxi Water Cave was formed more than five million years ago. Today its main sections are a "drought cave" and a "water cave." A dramatic array of stalagmites and stalactites are covered in vibrant greens, yellows and reds. The water cave contains the world's longest underground river at 5.8 kilometers. Of this, only 2.8 kilometers are accessible by boat. The drought cave is rather small. Only 300 meters are open to the public. The temperature in the cave remains a constant 10 C. Sweaters and pants are highly recommended. MORE: Librairie Avant-Garde: China's most beautiful bookshop 24. Liaoning: Golden Pebble Beach National Resort, Dalian (辽宁金石滩) Along 30 kilometers of Golden Pebble Beach (it's also known as the Jinshitan Scenic Area) just outside downtown Dalian, ancient rock formations have been twisted by time and elements into bizarre replicas of animals -- camels, monkeys, tigers, even dinosaurs. The largest is a 40-meter-high rock named after a "dinosaur who explores the sea." It's said to resemble a giant dinosaur bathing in the sea. Golden Pebble Beach is in the northeast of Dalian City. It can be reach by Dalian's light rail which runs regularly 25. Ningxia: Sand Lake (宁夏沙湖) More than 1 million migrating birds of various species stop over at this wetland in Ningxia twice a year (April-May, September-October). The rest of the year, around 200 species of birds call the wetlands home, including a large number of protected species, such as black cranes and the Chinese merganser. The area is also the reported habitat of giant salamanders that grow as long as 1.6 meters. Desert, water and reed mashes blend in this 80-square-kilometer area, which forms a unique geographic phenomenon called sand lake ("sha hu" in Mandarin). Sand Lake is 56 kilometers north of Yinchuan, the provincial capital of Ningxia. Buses are available daily between Sand Lake and Yinchuan's North Gate Bus Terminal. 26. Qinghai: Qinghai Lake (青海省青海湖) China's largest inland saltwater lake. This view is one of the great draws of Qinghai Province in China's far northwest every June and July. The lake sits 3,205 meters above sea level and is a three-hour bus ride from the nearest traffic hub of Xining. Few tourists make it to this part of China to enjoy this oil painting of a scene, not counting packs of mad cyclists who come for Tour de Qinghai Lake International Cycling Race every summer. Tour companies in Xining organize trips to Qinghai Lake. Buses bound for Qihai Lake are available every morning (7:45 a.m.) from Xining Train Station. MORE: An architectural wonderland hidden in a Chinese forest 27. Shaanxi: Xi'an City Wall (陕西西安城墙) In addition to the world-renowned Great Wall, the city wall belonging to Xi'an, first constructed more than 2,000 years ago, also represents the power and wisdom of the Middle Kingdom in its ancient heyday. What exists of the wall today are remains from 1370, when during the Ming Dynasty the fortification was 13.7 kilometers long, 12 meters high and between 15 to 18 meters wide. It now surrounds downtown Xi'an. Spend three or four hours biking along the wall and you'll get great views of China's old capital city. Climb up the city wall from Yongning Gate (永宁门) on Nan Jie in Xi'an's Xincheng District. 28. Shandong: Trestle Bridge, Qingdao (山东青岛栈桥) So that's why they call it the Yellow Sea. As old as the city of Qingdao, the Trestle Bridge has sat astride the Yellow Sea since 1892. First built for the reception of Li Hongzhang (李鸿章), a prominent statesman during the Qing Dynasty, Trestle Bridge has since become a symbol of the city. Walking the 440-meter-long bridge is a great way to enjoy breezes coming off the sea. At one end is Huilange Pagoda, a classic beauty that hosts historic and cultural exhibits throughout the year. Seaside Resort, 11 Jingshan Lu, Qingdao, Shandong Province (山东省青岛市京山路11号海滨风景区) 29. Shanxi: Hukou Waterfall (山西壶口瀑布) According to some, the most magnificent waterfall in the country. As the largest waterfall on the Yellow River, and second largest in China, Hukou Waterfall is known around the country for once gracing the RMB 50 note. At 20 meters high and 30 meters wide, the fall is located on the border of Shanxi and Shaanxi provinces. The May to October flood season is the best time to visit, when water flow and velocity increase, sometime swelling the fall into a 50-meter-wide spectacular scene. The nearest traffic hub to Hukou Waterfall is Yuncheng Airport. It's about 82 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Yuncheng Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. Yellow River Hukou Waterfall Scenic Area, Hukou Town, Ji County, Linfen, Shanxi Province (山西省临汾市吉县壶口镇黄河壶口瀑布景区) 30. Shanxi: Yungang Grottoes (山西云冈石窟) This 1,500-year-old site is an important Buddhist landmark. It houses 252 caves and more than 51,000 Buddha statues, most carved between the fifth and sixth century during the North Wei Dynasty. The sandstone statues -- the tallest stands 17 meters, the tiniest two centimeters -- combine multiple styles of Buddhist art, including Chinese, Gandhara and Persian. Grottoes 16 through 20 are the five best preserved caves. They shelter five Buddhas modeled after five Wei emperors. Yungang Grottoes are 18 kilometers west of Datong city. Direct flights are available between Datong and Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. MORE: What happens when all of China goes on vacation at once 31. Sichuan: Hailuogou Glacier National Park (四川海螺沟) Legend holds that only the lucky will be treated to this view. Also known as "Conch Gully," Hailuogou park sits at the eastern foot of Gonggar Mountain in southwest China's Sichuan province. According to legend, the gully was a wasteland until a renowned Tibetan monk played his treasured conch there and attracted many animals, who became so enchanted with the place that they took up residence. To memorialize the monk and his conch, the gully ever after became known as Conch Gully. The magnificent glacier, which drives through woodlands, cliffs, peaks and gullies, is accessible all year round. It appears at its best in early morning sunshine. More than 10 hot springs are spread beneath the glacier. Two are open to the public, including one at an elevation of 2,600 meters. The nearest traffic hub to Hailuogou Glacier National Park is Chengdu, capital city of Sichuan province. It's about 300 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Chengdu Airport by direct flights include Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and Xi'an. 32. Sichuan: Jiuzhaigou (四川九寨沟) This massive lake is the crown jewel of Jiuzhaigou, a region full of stunning alpine lakes and waterfalls. The lake is filled with incredible water that changes color throughout the day and year. The color comes from the reflection of the surrounding landscape, as well as algae and calcified rocks at the bottom of the shallow lake. Autumn is the best time to visit, when the lake surface appears as a multihued painter's palette. Direct flights are available between Jiuzhaigou's Jiuhuang Airport and major Chinese cities including Beijing, Shanghai, Xi'an and Chengdu. The nearest traffic hub to Jiuzhaigou is Chengdu, the provincial capital of Sichuan, which is one hour by air or 11 hours by bus south of the lake. 33. Tibet: Potala Palace (西藏布达拉宫) The former winter home of the Dalai Lama and seat of the former Tibetan ruling government, this nine-story attraction stands 3,700 meters above sea level, making it the highest palace on the planet. The Potala Palace's current incarnation is a state museum. More than 1,000 rooms remain, as well as the original layout of the White Palace (living quarters of the Dalai Lama) and the Red Palace (once a spiritual center of Tibetan Buddhism). All visitors to the palace are restricted to a one-hour stay. Potala Palace issues a limited number of tickets every day. To secure a ticket during peak season (May 1-October 31), independent travelers are advised to pick up a ticket coupon outside the palace a day before their visit. 34. Xinjiang: Lake Karakul (新疆喀拉库勒湖) This stunning view is the reward after a thrilling ride over one of the world's most dangerous roads, Karakoram Highway. The many "landslide site" signposts along the way haven't stopped devoted travelers, who mostly set out from Kashgar (喀什), the westernmost city in China. Standing 3,600 meters above sea level on the Pamir Plateau, the glacier lake's water reflects the surrounding mountains like a huge mirror. Best time to go is May to October. No public transportation is available between Kashgar and Karakul, but plenty of tour companies and hotels in Kashgar organize small groups and customized trips to the area. The lake is about four hours from Kashgar by road. Palace offers rare insights into China's modern history 35. Xinjiang: Nalati Grassland (新疆那拉提草原) This sub-alpine meadow is so distinct in northwest China that, according to legend, one of Genghis Khan's troops was so awed by its color that he gave the area the name "Nalati" (meaning "place where the sun emerges" in Mongolian). The prairie is a great place to experience Kazak customs. Locals still play traditional sports, live in yurts and raise falcons to hunt for the family dinners. Best time to go is July to October. China Southern operates a daily return flight between Urumqi and Nalati. 36. Yunnan: Three Pagodas, Dali (云南省大理崇圣寺三塔) These Buddhist towers are the chief landmark of Dali, an ancient town in China's southwest Yunnan Province. The main tower was first built in mid-ninth century in the hope to easing regular flooding. At 69 meters and 16 stories high, it was a "skyscraper" for the Tang Dynasty and is still the tallest pagoda in China. Each of it tiers is decorated with Buddha statues. The other two identical towers stand 42 meters and were erected almost a century later. The three holy structures form an equilateral triangle. Shutterbugs can get great shots from many different angles. The three pagodas are just north of downtown Dali. Direct flights (30 minutes) and train (eight hours) are available between Dali and Kunming, the provincial capital of Yunnan. 37. Yunnan: Pudacuo National Park, Shangri-la (云南香格里拉普达措国家公园) Pudacuo is the first national park in China to meet the criteria set by The World Conservation Union, a major global environmental organization. More than 20% of the country's plant species and around one-third of its mammal and bird species call this wetland plateau home. Photographers especially love the area's many types of orchids and China's highly endangered black-necked cranes. In Bita Lake in the park, the Bita double-lip fish is an ancient fish dating back 2.5 million years. Pudacuo is 22 kilometers east of Shangri-la, a tourist town in northwest Yunnan Province. 38. Zhejiang: Nanxi River (浙江楠溪江) With its mountain backdrop and shores lined with ancient houses, the Nanxi River inevitably became the cradle of classic Chinese water-and-ink painting. By drifting down the Nanxi River on a bamboo craft, travelers can enjoy views of locals doing laundry along the river and fishermen employing traditional methods of using cormorants to catch fish. The xiangyu is a rare freshwater fish unique to the Nanxi. The nearest traffic hub to Nanxi River is Wenzhou, a major city in Zhejiang Province. It's about 23 kilometers away. Major cities connected to Wenzhou Airport by direct flights include Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Hangzhou. There are nine established drifting routes on the river, ranging from one to 10 kilometers in length. China's cliff-clinging glass skywalk opens to public 39. Zhejiang: Thousand Island Lake (浙江千岛湖) In the 1950s, the Chinese government evacuated and flooded 928 square kilometers of villages, plains and hills to build a reservoir. The indirect result was a surreal view. Around 1,078 islands dot the lake. Outdoors activities are the draw of this ginormous recreation and resort area -- speedboating, water skiing, animal-themed island-hopping, mountain climbing. Travelers can also find excellent seafood and everything from budget cabins to five-star hotels. Direct buses run from Hangzhou West Bus Station to Thousand Island Lake Town. Buses depart every 30 minutes -- then take a taxi or bus to the scenic area. 40. Zhejiang: Yunhe Rice Terrace (浙江云和梯田) "Here's an idea. Let's make farming even more difficult." Literally meaning "peaceful clouds," Yunhe and its surrounding rice terraces have been home to farmers for at least 1,000 years. Winding in a maze up mountainsides from 200 to 1,400 meters, individual terraces can be constructed of as many as 700 layers. Rainy days are the best time to visit, when steam from evaporating river water floats through the terraces, creating a kind of agricultural dreamscape. Yunhe County is 67 kilometers southwest of Lishui city. Shuttle buses between Yunhe and Lishui are available at Lishui Train Station. To get to Lishui, take a train from big cities including Shanghai, Hangzhou and Beijing. Editor's note: This article was previously published in 2012. It was reformatted and republished in 2017. Quickly catch up on the day's news (CNN)Here's what you might have missed Wednesday on CNN: -- The Justice Department is preparing to announce as early as next week the completion of the Mueller report, according to people familiar with the plans. -- Haiti's leader has accused eight men, including five Americans, of being "terrorists" on a mission to destabilize his government. The claim comes as Prime Minister Jean-Henry Ceant and President Jovenel Moise face calls to resign. -- A "potent winter storm" is sweeping across the US. Here's what regions are being affected. -- Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen has sent a warning to Asia in the face of mounting aggression from Beijing. -- A Colorado man accused of beating the mother of his child to death tried to persuade his new girlfriend three times to kill her, according to court testimony. -- This small rodent is the world's first mammal known to have become extinct due to human-induced climate change, the Australian government says. -- The abuse of women by priests in one Catholic order was so bad that a pope intervened. These are the women's stories. -- Chicago detectives investigating an alleged attack on Jussie Smollett are working to obtain the actor's financial records, a high-ranking police source says. -- Samsung's new Galaxy S10 lineup features foldable phones, 5G, and phones that charge each other. -- Ariana Grande ties the Beatles and makes chart history.  Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen will run for re-election in 2020 Taipei (CNN)Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen says she will run for re-election as the island's leader in 2020, despite her flagging popularity and growing hostility from Beijing. Tsai revealed her plans Tuesday in an exclusive interview with CNN's Matt Rivers while aboard her presidential plane, saying she wanted to "complete" her vision for Taiwan. "It's natural that any sitting president wants to do more for the country and wants to finish things on his or her agenda," Tsai said. Tsai was the first woman to be elected leader of the self-governed democratic island in 2016, sweeping to power amid promises to overhaul the economy and lessen Taiwan's reliance on mainland China. But two years later, her Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) suffered bruising losses during local elections in 2018, prompting her to resign as chairwoman of the party. Across the island, her party lost by almost 10% of the vote. Since then, she has faced calls from senior members of her own party to not seek re-election. But despite the criticism, Tsai told CNN she is "confident" in her ability to win. "This is something I have prepared for," said Tsai. "It's again another challenge. Being president, you're not short of challenges. At good times you have challenges of one sort, and in bad times you have challenges of another sort." Strained relations with Beijing Despite being self-governed since the end of China's civil war in 1949, Beijing still views Taiwan as a renegade province and part of the People's Republic of China. Tsai's predecessor, Ma Ying-jeou, forged close ties with Beijing and even met with Chinese President Xi Jinping in a historic 2015 meeting in Singapore. But relations turned frosty following the election of Tsai, whose party has historically advocated for self-determination. The Chinese government, under Xi, has turned up the pressure on Tsai and her administration both economically and politically. Since 2016, the Chinese military has regularly conducted large-scale military exercises around the island, including sailing the Liaoning aircraft carrier through the Taiwan Strait. The Taiwan military has responded with anti-invasion drills, including a massive show of force on Taiwan's west coast on January 17. In a January speech, Xi made a renewed call for Taiwan to rejoin mainland China, telling it to embrace "peaceful reunification" and warning independence was a "dead end." But in her own New Year's address, Tsai told Beijing to "face the reality of the existence of the Republic of China," the official name for Taiwan. "Respect the commitment of the 23 million people of Taiwan to freedom and democracy," she said. Domestic issues Despite the strained ties, Tsai said cross-strait relations weren't a key factor in her party's setback at last year's elections. Tsai said she blamed her party's bruising defeat on what she calls a difficult reform agenda she has pushed since taking office. Her efforts to promote pension reform and push for equal rights for the island's LGBT community have become divisive issues in Taiwan, fueling protests across the island. "You get attacks, you get criticism, the people don't feel the result of the reform so much when you've just started," Tsai said. Tsai will face a difficult re-election bid and could be forced to fend off challengers both in her own party and the Kuomintang (KMT), the main opposition party that traditionally favors closer relations with mainland China. Some polls have Tsai down as much as 30% against potential Kuomintang presidential nominee Eric Chu, who she defeated in 2016. Asked if there was anything she regretted from her first term in office, Tsai said she felt she had spent too little time talking with voters in her first two years in power. "I spent too much time in managing the government affairs and I spent a lot of time making foreign visits to our diplomatic allies," she said. "Many people thought I was a bit detached from them." CNN's Ben Westcott contributed to this article from Hong Kong. Fortune tellers, letter writers and the last of Hong Kong's traditional trades From fortune tellers to professional letter writers, many of Hong Kong's street-savvy, traditional entrepreneurs have devoted their entire lives to ancient and increasingly forgotten practices. These tenacious tradesmen and women -- however clandestine against the city's frantic urban backdrop -- are essential ingredients in Hong Kong's cultural identity. But with almost no willing successors, skyrocketing rents and little chance of competing with larger companies, simply surviving has proven almost impossible. Along with photographer Gary Jones, I captured a glimpse of the hardy few who have battled the odds and continue to run their businesses today. Mak Ping Lam, traditional seal maker Despite having been in the seal-making business for half a century, Mak Ping Lam keeps his tools simple: a few rusty knives, a small wooden vice, one scrap of sandpaper and the bottom half of a soda can, which he uses as an ink tray. Chinese seals, or 'chops,' were used as a form of identification for legal papers, bank transfers and documents requiring authorship. In mainland China and Taiwan, they are still used on checks in lieu of a signature, though not in Hong Kong. To make a seal, Mak drafts a 2-square-centimeter (0.6-square-inch) design, and draws a mirror image of it onto the base of the seal. Only then can he begin to etch it into stone. "Some fortune tellers tell people to come here, make a chop to put on their desk and they will get good luck," he said. "I don't know if it works or not." Au-yeung Ping-chi, paper effigy maker Burning paper effigies as offerings to the deceased is a common religious practice in Hong Kong. Artists carefully bend thin strips of bamboo into various shapes, before coating them with joss paper and paint. For ten hours every day, effigy maker Au-yeung Ping-chi hand-makes some of the most detailed and often bizarre paper designs found in Hong Kong. From food, clothes and houses, to laptops and even full-sized massage chairs, he produces replicas of items that customers hope will join their loved ones in the afterlife. Over the years, Au-yeung has seen people's requests change, from simpler pleasures like shoes to more modern items, like Nintendo Gameboys. "People in the past were simpler -- they didn't need much even when they were alive," he said. "When I die, I would like some cars, houses and a hi-fi system ... A super deluxe seven-foot-long Mercedes-Benz and Porsche will do." Luk Shu Choi and Luk Keung Choi, copperware craftsmen In the 1950s and 1960s, most Hong Kong families used copperware pots, pans and kettles. But the material was gradually replaced by stainless steel, which is easier to clean and less reactive to acid. Chinese herbal tea shops still choose copper over steel -- as do some chefs, because of its ability to heat quickly and evenly. However, very few places in Hong Kong continue to make these products. The Luk brothers learned the trade from their father, and they still work in the family's old shop. It takes a full day to finish one pot, which they sell for about 700 Hong Kong dollars ($89). Their shop is brimming with handcrafted kitchenware, urns, door knockers and other trinkets. "I cook with copper utensils," older brother Luk Shu Choi said. "But I also like to use an electronic rice cooker as it's really convenient. You can't just stick with the old things; we also have to follow trends and the development of the world." Chan Lok Hoi, bamboo birdcage maker Chan Lok Choi has been making birdcages since he was just 13 years old. Taught by his uncle and another famous cage-maker, Chan's craft sees him bending bamboo rods into place, carving patterns or scriptures onto them and then painting the cage. Taking caged birds to parks in the morning was once a common practice in Hong Kong. You would often see the cages hanging from trees, while owners read newspapers or played mahjong. A handful of these bird-lovers can still be found today, either in the city's parks or at the Yuen Po Bird Market, where Chan's shop is located. But criticism from animal rights groups and the arrival of avian flu in 2012 -- which led to caged birds being banned on public transport -- have dampened this tradition. "I would love to have an apprentice," Chan said. "But no-one with a school education seems to be interested in learning these handicraft skills any more." William Kam, fortune teller William Kam is a self-proclaimed, 100%-accurate face and palm reader. Located at the end of the Hong Kong's famous Temple Street night market, Kam's brightly-lit stall proudly displays his accreditation and 25 years of experience. Soothsayers first set up shop on Temple Street the 1970s, offering everything from palm and tarot card readings to "bird fortune telling," where a small wing-clipped bird would peck out your future from a deck of cards. Kam expresses optimism about the future of his trade -- perhaps he knows something we don't. "Twenty-two years ago, most of my customers were locals or people from (mainland) China, but now that this street is famous, I get people from all over the world. Tourists love it here. Hopefully that helps conserve this place." "I tell people the whole truth according to what I see, even if it's bad news." Cheung Shun King, mahjong tile maker Mahjong, a four-player game of skill and strategy, has been popular in Hong Kong for hundreds of years. It involves drawing and discarding tiles, each with a different character on it, to form winning hands. Today, most people opt for factory-made tiles, but Cheung Shun King continues to carve and sell them from his family shop. He mostly replaces lost or damaged tiles, though he occasionally engraves and paints entire sets from scratch. These sets cost about 4,000 Hong Kong dollars ($510) and take months to complete. Ironically, between work and his personal life, Cheung has never learned the game. "I would rather rest than learn how to play mahjong," he said. "But my children love to play." "We can't do anything to help the industry, as mechanic production is replacing us," he added. "I foresee that all mahjong shops in Hong Kong will disappear (within) ten years." Kan Hon Wing, tailor Established in the 1920s, Mei Wah Fashion is the oldest and last remaining tailor of its kind, specializing in traditional qipaos and cheongsams. Master tailor Kan Hon Wing grew up in the store, which was originally opened by his grandfather. The qipao, or "Mandarin gown," was once everyday attire in Hong Kong. They were worn by almost all women, regardless of social class, so tailors were in high demand. But nowadays, the garment is reserved for more formal occasions, such as banquets or weddings. Every piece must meet Kan's exacting standards, so it takes him more than a week to make one qipao. But with shrinking trade comes exclusivity: While a qipao in the 1920s could cost as little as one Hong Kong Dollar (13 cents), Kan's dresses today sell for up to 20,000 Hong Kong dollars ($2,549). "Every qipao is unique," he said. "Tailors need to be very detail-minded. I will give people suggestions if their 'dream qipao' is too ugly." Leung Lo Yik (Chen Kau), letter writer Letter writing was a profitable business in Hong Kong during the 1950s and 1960s, when the city's literacy rate was as low as 60%. Professional letter writers would help people contact relatives overseas, write legal documents and fill out forms or applications. But with the introduction of compulsory education, and the rapid evolution of technology, demand has fallen. There may now be fewer than 10 professional letter writers in the city. One of them, Chen Kau, has a handful of regular customers who he helps with tax forms, welfare applications or visas. Most days, he has none at all, so sits reading the newspaper or chatting. "The development of technology like smartphones and computers is the biggest enemy of our industry," he said. "But at the same time, it is essential for a city or any society to improve with time. There must be some jobs that are replaced or even eliminated." Wu Ding Keung, stencil maker Stencil making is among Hong Kong's oldest trades and was once a thriving industry. The delicate process requires a sharp eye, a steady hand and expert calligraphy skills. Craftsmen first draw the Chinese characters onto thin iron sheets, then very carefully cut them out with a hammer and chisel. These hand-cut stencils were used for advertising, wall notices and shop signs, though they've have been largely replaced by digital or laser-cut alternatives. Wu Ding Keung is among Hong Kong's last stencil makers. Stooped over a small table with only a hammer and bag of chisels, the 82-year-old can go for days without seeing a single customer, but he continues working to keep himself busy. "I've forgotten how long I've been working here, but I know I started before the handover of Hong Kong," Wu said. "I once helped a couple make a stencil for their wedding party. I liked that." Lo Sai Keung, photofinisher In the 1990s, there were about 1,000 shops developing film around Hong Kong. Now, there are fewer than 50. Most shop owners responded to the demise of film by switching to digital cameras, lenses, photo processing or printing, but a few hardy shops still sell film and analog camera equipment to passionate enthusiasts. Lo Sai Keung's shop, Sunrise Professional Photofinishing, is packed with new and second-hand cameras dating as far back as the 1930s. Nowadays, he develops about 20 to 30 rolls of film a day; however, in the 1970s and 1980s, he would process about 200 a day. Most of Lo's customers are young, curious photography students looking to try their hand at analog photography. "Hong Kong people love selfies," he said. "You can still do them with film cameras although it's harder and you would probably need a mirror." "Sunset Survivors," published by Blacksmith Books, is available now. Maria Ressa's arrest spells more trouble for press freedom in increasingly illiberal Asia (CNN)The arrest of Maria Ressa, a Time Person of the Year, award-winning journalist and frequent critic of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, has renewed fears for the future of press freedom in the southeast Asian nation and around the region.  Ressa, co-founder of online news outlet Rappler and former CNN bureau chief, was arrested in connection with "cyber libel" charges against her media company on Wednesday, which critics decry as politically motivated. She posted bail the following day, after spending a night in custody.  Rappler's extensive reporting on Duterte's brutal war on drugs has earned praise from human rights advocates but has made it a target for Duterte's administration and its supporters. Last year, the government temporarily revoked Rappler's operating license, and charged it with tax evasion. Rappler's reputation Despite frequent verbal attacks and obstacles raised by the Duterte administration, Rappler is admired for its fearless reporting on the country's deadly war on drugs and scores of other issues with the current government, including its treatment of opposition politicians. In the light of its uncompromising record, Ressa's arrest has been widely seen by human rights and journalist activist groups as a warning shot to the press. "Rappler is a giant here, their body of work is really something," says Carlos Conde, a Human Rights Watch researcher based in Manila. "Trying to undermine or to sideline Maria Ressa or Rappler is a huge assault on the press in the Philippines," Conde says. A message to other journalists Ressa's arrest "sends an absolutely unequivocal message to anyone working in the Philippines," says Peter Greste, a former Al Jazeera journalist who was jailed in Egypt after producing work critical of the government. He is now an academic in his native Australia and founding director of the Alliance for Journalists' Freedom.  "You can't look at this in isolation, think of it in terms of what it means to the entire media in the Philippines -- if you question the administration, you can expect harassment, intimidation, and arrest." Conde agrees, and says the message is stark. "The message is: 'Don't mess with us. We're determined to make our vision for this country a reality.'" Complicating matters is the culture of violence that Filipino journalists, even before Duterte's rise, have had to face. "The Philippines is still one of the countries with the highest rates of journalist murders," Conde says. "You can publish what you want, you just have to contend with the consequences. You die, you get intimidated or you become Maria Ressa." Press freedom around Asia The incident has reverberated through a region that is widely seen as becoming more and more illiberal, from China and North Korea, two of the world's least free countries for the media, to Thailand and Malaysia, which have cracked down harder on the press in recent years.  "It seems to be happening almost everywhere at the same time; it creates new norms and it is very worrying," says Florence de Changy, president of Hong Kong's Foreign Correspondents' Club and an Asia correspondent for French newspaper Le Monde. She says that the region's "rising intolerance for dissenting views" represents a misunderstanding of the press's role in society.  The 2018 World Press Freedom Index, created by advocacy group Reporters without Borders (RSF), includes Australia, New Zealand and South Korea in its ranking of the top 50 nations for press freedom. The index also lists Taiwan in the top 50. The rest of the Asia-Pacific region falls below that, due to varying levels of harassment, physical abuse, censorship and surveillance of journalists.  Cédric Alviani, RSF's East Asia Bureau Chief, blames China for setting a bad example. The Asian giant ranks 176th of 180 in the index. "In the past six years, the situation (in China) has worsened a lot. This comes from the bad example that the Chinese authorities are spreading in Asia." "Other countries in Asia are copying this example. Thailand, the Philippines, it's very worrying," he says, citing the jailing of two Reuters journalists in Myanmar, and a government crackdown on bloggers in Vietnam. The Philippines currently ranks in 133rd place—a fall from 127th place in 2017.  "In Asia more and more you have the idea that media that are critical of the government are anti-patriotic, that they're against the people. This goes against everything we know about democracies, I would say that this is a situation that is very worrying." Chipping away at the media's reputation Rappler's struggles have a knock-on effect, activists say. "If the capacity to hold governments to account (diminishes), everyone suffers," says Greste. "This is about the public's right to know what their governments are doing in their name. The free press is the best way people have of informing what governments are doing. Otherwise all you get is propaganda." Shawn Crispin, Senior Southeast Asia Representative at the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), worries that governments elsewhere could see the international community's pallid response to Duterte's attacks on Rappler as license to launch their own crackdowns on critical voices. "Rappler is widely seen as the epitome of a free press, a news organization that was digging in to what is seen as an abusive government," he says. "When the government fights back, how is the world going to respond?" "If the wider world's response turns out to be limp, maybe other regions will think they (too) can crack down on journalists. When a government goes after a news organization and gets away with it, it sends a signal across the board," he adds. Journalists in the Philippines and throughout the region must continue to play their role to the best of their ability, says de Changy, the Hong Kong FCC president.  In an echo of Ressa's famous exhortation to "hold the line" in a speech at the Committee to Protect Journalists awards last year, de Changy says: "Some say we have no choice but to adjust to the red line, but I think we should resist." Trump's influence US President Donald Trump's invective against the press is never far from the minds of press freedom advocates in Asia. "The fact that Trump calls journalists and unfavorable reports 'fake news' is a blessing for every dictator on earth, you can see that in many countries where strongmen use the same argument," says RSF's Alviani. "When you see people like [Trump] throw out those principles in his public statements, describing press as the 'enemy of the people,' it absolutely gives license to everyone else," says Greste. "His rhetoric has a very significant impact."  Indeed, while parroting terms like "fake news," authoritarians in the region also appear to have copied Trump's actions. Much like CNN White House reporter Jim Acosta's brief White House ban, Ressa and her colleague Pia Ranada have had their access to the Presidential Palace rescinded, severely hampering their reporting abilities.  In December, Philippine presidential spokesman Salvador Panelo, in a response to a question about Ranada's ban, said at a press briefing that access to the presidential palace was a "privilege," according to CNN affiliate CNN Philippines.  India wants to make medical tourism a $9 billion industry by 2020 New Delhi (CNN)There are many reasons people go to India: the culture, the food, the weather. But in recent years, another factor drawing visitors is health care. India's medical tourism industry could grow by 200% by 2020, hitting $9 billion, according to Ministry of Tourism figures. As it tries to expand the industry, the country is trying to make it easier for people to come for medical reasons. It's touting advanced facilities, skilled doctors and low-cost treatment but also traditional practices such as yoga and Ayurveda. "India can provide medical and health care of international standards at low costs," Tourism Minister KJ Alphons said in written response to a query in the Lower House of Parliament. "India excels in the state of the art medical facilities, reputed health care professionals, quality nursing facilities and traditional healthcare therapies." In 2015, India ranked as the third most popular destination for medical tourism, when the industry was worth $3 billion. The number of foreign tourists coming into the country on medical visas sat at nearly 234,000 that year. By 2017, the number of arrivals more than doubled to 495,056, government figures show. Visa rules have also been changed to encourage applications. "The e-tourist visa regime has been expanded to include medical visits as well. Medical and medical attendant visas have been introduced to ease the travel process of medical tourists. The maximum duration of stay in India under the e-medical visa is a longer duration of six months," Alphons said. Still, it's important to be cautious when it comes to predictions, said Johanna Hanefeld, an associate professor of health policy and systems at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. "One of the challenges is that the figures cited are based on the private sector. It's private individuals paying private providers. Any type of figure tends to be relatively speculative. The initial wave of predictions was business analysis and research and was based on the thinking that people go on cost and quality alone. And essentially being a world with disappearing borders, this was an area of growth," Hanefeld said. "In the last five years, these predictions have been down scaled because health is a difficult issue, and people make decisions based on a number of reasons such as culture, proximity or perception of care. These are not rational decisions based purely on economics." India is part of a global trend The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development describes medical tourists as those who "travel across international borders with the intention of receiving some form of medical treatment." This covers a range of medical services but most often includes dental care, cosmetic surgery, elective surgery and fertility treatment. People visit India for a variety of health care needs, including cancer treatments, transplants and cardiac surgery. Globally, around 14 million to 16 million patients traveled outside their home countries to seek treatment in 2017, according to Patients Beyond Borders, a medical travel advocacy group for consumers. The global medical tourism market is estimated to be around $45.5 billion to $72 billion. Other leading destinations include Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Turkey and the United States. There are challenges for the global industry and consumers too, especially quality and continuity of care. "There is no quality assurance between countries," Hanefeld said. "So if something goes wrong, there is no way for legal redress, whether there's malpractice or serious complications following a procedure. So I think this puts people off. It's all private-sector practice. There's no international body or quality assurance." Still, for many, cost savings can be a major draw. Using American health care costs as a benchmark, Patients Without Borders estimates savings ranging from 40% to 90%, depending on the country. In Taiwan, Thailand, Mexico and Turkey patients can save 40% to 65% on procedures and treatments. At the higher end are countries like Singapore and South Korea, where patients can save 25% to 45% on procedures. In India, the savings can start from 65% and go up to 90% with patients receiving quality care. "Indian doctors have a reputation for high-quality medical training. A lot of them are returnee Indians who have studied abroad, and then you have large hospital groups such as Apollo, which have become large international brands. They have also gone into strategic partnerships with brands in high-income countries," said Hanefeld. For India's private health care providers, medical tourism is a lucrative business. In 2018, Max Healthcare, a chain of private hospitals, treated up to 50,000 foreign patients, with the majority traveling from the Middle East, central Asia and Africa. Patients often come for specialized care that requires specific equipment or expertise, said Sonika Raina, a representative for Max Healthcare. "These include high-end cardiac surgeries, including pediatric cardiac surgery, cancer treatments, neurosurgery, spine surgery, transplants, bariatric surgery, trauma-related orthopedic surgery and IVF," Raina said. "Nearly 10% of the overall revenue comes from foreign patients." Many of the patients in India come from neighboring countries and other developing nations. "There's also a huge diaspora market, such as people who are British but born to Indian parents," Hanefeld said. "Initially, there was a prediction that people from rich countries would travel to middle-income countries to get a good deal. What seems to be more the case is that more people from low- or middle-income countries travel for care," Hanefeld said. "It's more about unavailability. What you see a lot of is the elite from lower-middle income countries simply because the procedures may not be available in the country they are from." Traveling for traditional health practices Traditional Indian health practices such as Ayurveda, yoga, Unani, Siddha and homeopathy are now also being promoted to increase the numbers of medical tourists. Ayurveda is an ancient Hindu system of medicine based on the notion of balance within the body. It uses herbal treatment and yogic breathing. Siddha and Unani are similar in their holistic approach to finding harmony between the mind and body, with the origins of Siddha lying in the southern state of Tamil Nadu, while Unani can trace its roots back to the time of ancient Greece. These all come under the Ministry of AYUSH, a government agency created in 2014 to improve access to and awareness of traditional methods. India's AYUSH industry was estimated to be worth around $2.4 billion in 2014-15, according to a 2018 report by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry. This traditional knowledge of health care, along with India's reputation in modern, Western approaches, is fueling the country's rise in medical tourism. CNN's Subhrangshu Pratim Sarmah contributed to this report.

Correction: In a previous version of this story, a quote incorrectly said Mayo Clinic had a partnership with an Indian hospital group. Looking for a mate? Head to this Taiwan temple for a meeting with the 'Love God' These days, it's all about swiping right to find a partner. But some Taiwan residents have another method for finding romance besides Tinder -- they call on the god of marriage and love. According to Chinese mythology, the Love God, or Yue Lao, is in possession of a "book of marriages," and can find and bind you to the one you're meant to be with, with a red string. The story goes that during the Tang Dynasty (618-907 AD), a man asked the Love God to show him his future wife. But he didn't believe the Love God and had the girl attacked. But in the future, when he actually met his wife, she had a scar from that same attack. Taking this somewhat gruesome story to heart, many started believing in the Love God -- also referred to as "The Matchmaker" or "The Old Man under the Moon" -- starting in the Qing Dynasty (1644 to 1912), says associate professor Isaac Yue of the University of Hong Kong. Today, believers continue to pray at statues of his likeness throughout Asia. And while there are larger, more colorful, even blingier, Love God sculptures in the region, the one in Taipei's Xia Hai City God Temple is the most popular. "I can't promise anything, but if you believe, you will be successful," says Naomi Lee, a guide at the temple. "If you don't believe, he can't help you." Around 500 lovelorn visitors flock to this Taiwanese temple every day, estimates Lee. And on days like Valentine's Day or Lunar New Year, more than 1,000 pass through. Reportedly, actress Sarah Jessica Parker was a visitor, adds Lee. Some are repeat visitors, too. Successful couples are obliged to bring back wedding cookies -- and judging by the piles of cookie boxes we saw during our visit, there have been many happy partnerships. In 2014, there were around 5,000 successful matches, says Bob Chen, a guide with the Taipei Walking Tour. Small but mighty The Xia Hai temple is about 40 minutes from the center of Taipei, Taiwan's capital. It was built in 1859, but the Love God's statue wasn't added until 1971. Measuring only 43 centimeters tall, this likeness of Yue Lao, is mightier than the others, because he is standing, not sitting, and ready to perform his magic, explains Chen. And unlike other temples, one can intercede for family members, meaning you don't have to directly meet this Love God. Another factor loaning to this temple's potency, says Chen, is that its City God -- not to be confused with the Love God -- has a wife. Many temples have statues of City Gods, who act as guardians for the metropolis. But it's rare to find one who is married. Residents gave the Xia Hai City God a wife -- also represented by a statue -- after discovering that women were fainting during the annual summer parade at the temple. It was the result, Chen says, of the City God being single. So now, when anyone visits, they must pray to the happy couple as well. "Everybody should come here and do it," says Chiang Hung Chen, 40, a traveler from Vietnam who has been married for eight years. "I found my husband a year after I visited the temple. Now I need to come back and say thanks." The prayer process is quite complicated and it can take more than 30 minutes to complete all 12 of the steps, which are outlined on a sign at the temple. It entails buying an offering set for around $9, then lighting incense, praying to the City God, his wife and the Love God, plus eating wedding cookies left by successful couples. When praying to the Love God, Lee says you have to be as detailed as possible. First introduce yourself by giving your name, age and address, and then give as much information as possible, right down to personality traits, of the person you want as your partner. The offering set also includes a red string and a Love God amulet, which worshipers must keep on their body or purse until the promise is fulfilled. "She never paid attention to me" For Omi Chen, the Love God was a bit of a last resort. "I chased her for two years," said Chen, 32. "She never paid attention to me, until I went to the temple and asked the Love God for help." Two months after he visited the temple, he says she responded. "I thought he didn't understand me, that he wasn't serious about getting together," says Chen's former coworker, and now wife, Yuli Cheng, 33. Now they own a milk tea shop together -- the fulfillment of a promise to the Love God, Chen says. If the Love God was able to help him, he said, he would go on to help others. The two started the business with a vending machine in 2016. The shop, now open for about two years, is a couple blocks from the temple, but the machine is right across the street. The machine also serves milk tea and each of the bottles contains a love fortune. There are some 500 to 600 sayings hidden in the bottles and contain advice from their friends in love. For example, one says that "It is more important for one person to truly love you than to be popular among many." "Lots of our customers come here and ask for advice," says Cheng. "But we send them to the temple to ask the Love God instead." And after visiting the temple or grabbing one of Chen's drinks for a fortune, if one still isn't happy with the results, there's allegedly a Break-Up God, residing at a temple only 40 minutes away. Zhinan Temple's Lu Dong-bing is supposedly jealous of loving couples after unsuccessfully wooing a female deity. "He's single, so he will cut a relationship," says tour guide Chen. The area around Xia Hai City God Temple, Dadaocheng, is known for its tea, having been a tea export port in the past. It's also the setting of a recent original series by Netflix, "A Taiwanese Tale of Two Cities." Xia Hai City God Temple, No. 61, Section 1, Dihua St, Datong District, Taipei City, Taiwan 103; +886 2 2558 0346 Hoshinoya Tokyo: Japan's most luxurious urban ryokan With just over a year till Tokyo hosts the 2020 Summer Olympics, now's the time for travelers planning to take in the sporting action live to start thinking about their accommodation plans. Particularly those looking for a one-of-a-kind Japanese luxury experience. Leading the charge in this regard is Hoshinoya Tokyo, owned by hospitality brand Hoshino Resorts. It isn't a boutique hotel. Nor is it a luxury hotel. Located in the capital's Otemachi neighborhood -- the political and financial district, near the Imperial Palace -- Hoshinoya Tokyo is at its core a ryokan (Japanese inn). High-end ryokans aren't common in Japan's big cities. They're more associated with natural settings far from urban streets -- near oceans or against backdrops of mountainous landscapes. With 17 floors filled with 84 rooms in a black tower that easily blends into its skyscraper-filled surroundings, you could be forgiven for scoffing at the idea there's anything traditional or inn-like about Hoshinoya Tokyo. Until you experience the thoughtful design elements created by architecture firm Azuma that fill its spaces. For instance, Hoshinoya Tokyo's exterior is cased in a metal lattice made up of patterns traditionally found on kimonos. But unless you're a guest, that's where the tour comes to an end. Outside visitors are not allowed in. Several mini ryokans in one There's no large, flashy entrance helmed by a white-gloved doorman where cars can pull in. (Our taxi driver let us out on the road, across the street, as he just couldn't find the place.) Upon stepping through the ryokan's enormous entryway door, made from a single cut of cypress, a single staff member appears on the scene to confirm your booking. You're then asked to remove shoes to protect the scented tatami flooring that blankets the property. Footwear is placed in bamboo lockers, ready to be accessed when you leave this fortress of calm to brave the busy streets of Tokyo, before you're escorted to your room. Each floor has its own central lounge -- or ochanoma -- that's shared by guests of the six rooms on each floor. This is because Hoshinoya Tokyo was designed to feel like several mini ryokans in one. Guests can help themselves to complimentary refreshments such as seasonal teas, coffee, sake, beer and snacks. There are three room options available, ranging in size from 40-49 square meters: Sakura (deluxe king or deluxe twin), Yuri (corner deluxe king) and Kiku (executive triple). All combine high-tech and contemporary furnishings with traditional Japanese design elements -- classic shoji screens included. We stayed in the Kiku option, a corner room that includes a dining table, desk and a large sofa. Beds are futon style -- but with luxurious, plush bedding. Breakfast is served in-room -- guests can choose from Western or Japanese cuisine. This being a ryokan, a set of his and her kimonos can be found in your closet. Wearing them around the property adds to the ryokan vibe, as you pad across the bamboo and sandalwood scented tatami floors in sock-feet to go to dinner. Where are the other guests? This is a place that was designed for privacy, relaxation and quiet, so much so that you'll often feel like you're the only guest in the building -- and one reason it might not be suited for everyone. During a recent visit, the only sign of fellow travelers could be seen in the main lobby on the second floor, an area where guests can participate in demonstrations highlighting various facets of traditional Japanese arts, such as matcha tea ceremonies or classical music, as well as sake tasting sessions. This welcome feeling of solitude extends to the ryokan's single, unnamed restaurant too. Located in the basement, it has just six tatami-matted private rooms with tables and seating, and an open space consisting of four tables and a counter. The restaurant's multi-course dinner comes from the hands of award-winning chef Noriyuki Hamada -- much to the chagrin of local foodies. (Remember, guests only.) Diners are served a brilliant series of dishes dubbed Nippon Cuisine. According to the resort, this is "a culinary style that focuses on fish -- a common staple of ryokan dining and a key element in Japanese culinary culture" -- and prepared using French techniques. Open-air soaks This being a ryokan, there's of course an in-house onsen (hot spring bathing area). Water is piped in from 1,500 meters below the streets of Tokyo. If not for the memorable cuisine of chef Noriyuki we'd go so far to say this is the star attraction of Hoshinoya Tokyo. Located on the top floor, the onsen offers male and female bath halls, each with indoor and outdoor sections connected by a tunnel. Like many Japanese onsen, tattoos need to be covered -- a challenge considering you need to bathe naked. But hotel staff are happy to provide flesh-colored stickers to cover your ink with. (At this point, you might find yourself re-thinking that full-back piece you got in college.) There's no fitness center, but guests in need of a workout can access the gym in a nearby building or go for a run on the five-kilometer trail that loops around the Imperial Palace. There is, however, an onsite spa offering a variety of massages and other treatments. Hoshino goes global Hoshinoya Tokyo's successful attempt to create a peaceful sanctuary in one of the world's most populated cities shouldn't come as a surprise. Hoshino Resorts has been in this game for over a century. It was founded in 1904 by Kuniji Hoshino, who opened his first hot spring resort in 1914. Long familiar to Japanese travelers, the brand is only now starting to weave its unique style of hospitality into international markets. In addition to the 30 or so properties around the country, including its flagship Hoshinoya Resorts and several sub-brands, Hoshino opened Hoshinoya Bali in Ubud in early 2017. Hoshinoya Guguan, a luxury hotspring resort, is due to open in Taichung, Taiwan later this year. Hoshinoya Tokyo, 1 Chome-9-１ Otemachi, Chiyoda, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan; +81 570-073-066 The strange political path of Nayib Bukele, El Salvador's new President (CNN)Last weekend, El Salvador elected Nayib Armando Bukele Ortez, 37, to the presidency. The businessman and former mayor's path to the presidency was circuitous, marked with struggles to find a political party -- which may ultimately have proven a good omen, as polls suggest that Bukele's supporters were dissatisfied with the country's traditional political parties. Bukele has called himself a man of the left and began his political life in the leftist Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN). However, he ended up running for president with the conservative Great Alliance for National Unity (GANA) party. "It's hard to see where he fits into current Latin American politics," said Mike Allison, professor of political science at the University of Scranton and former Fulbright scholar to El Salvador. "Bukele's considered a populist, an outsider candidate who ran against the system. He says that he comes from the left, but he had to join a political party of the right to run." An outsider candidate Bukele, who often appears in a glossy leather motorcycle jacket and slicked-back hair, is a Yamaha motorcycle distributor and a declared supporter of Salvadoran soccer team Alianza. His wife, psychologist and ballerina Gabriela Rodríguez, accompanies him on most political activities. In January, Bukele announced that that the pair would soon be parents, tweeting a photo of an ultrasound. He has stood out from traditional presidential candidates for his reticence with the media. "Bukele favors technology and speaking directly to the people rather than through traditional media," added Allison. He has also been a fierce critic of past presidents, with campaign slogans such as "There's enough money when nobody steals" and "Return what was stolen," referring to the alleged disappearance of funds during the administrations of former Presidents Francisco Flores and Antonio Saca. Flores died in January 2016, when he was waiting for a trial date for diversion of funds donated by Taiwan. In September 2018, Saca was sentenced to 10 years in prison for embezzlement and money and asset laundering. Bukele's strange path to the presidency Bukele began his political career in 2012 as the FMLN-backed mayor of the small town of Nuevo Cuscatlán. In 2015, he won the mayoral elections of San Salvador, defeating a conservative candidate whose party, the Nationalist Republican Alliance (ARENA), had ruled for two terms. After Bukele became mayor, the political relationship between him and his party began to deteriorate. Some analysts say the FMLN considered Bukele too harsh a critic of the then-government of Salvador Sánchez Cerén. In September 2017, municipal comptroller Xóchitl Marchelli accused Bukele of "throwing an apple" and calling her a "witch" during a meeting of the San Salvador City Council, which Bukele denied. The next month, the FMLN expelled Bukele, citing Marchelli's allegations and accusing Bukele of promoting divisions within the party. Bukele took to Facebook Live to announce that he would start a new political party called "New Ideas," but it turned out to be a short-lived venture. Struggling to accredit the nascent party with the Supreme Electoral Tribunal while presidential elections loomed, Bukele abandoned New Ideas and joined an existing party called Democratic Change. Then in July 2018, Democratic Change was shut down along with three other parties for failing to acquire a minimum number of votes in the 2015 election. Bukele was forced to find a yet another political party to back his candidacy. Just six months before the elections, Bukele finally found GANA, a party that could last all the way to the presidency. And indeed it did. An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated the name of political science professor Mike Allison. This has been corrected.  China and Taiwan clash in Lunar New Year military propaganda videos Hong Kong (CNN)Beijing and Taipei have marked the Lunar New Year holiday by releasing competing videos of military grandstanding, in the latest rhetorical clash between the two governments. China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) published a video on Sunday showing famous sights and scenery from across the island of Taiwan juxtaposed against images of PLA jets and bombers soaring through the sky. The propaganda video was titled "My Fighting Eagles Fly Around Taiwan." The background lyrics called for China's "brothers and sisters" to "gently ... return." In response, the self-governed island's military released a dramatic video of soldiers, tanks and explosions on Sunday, overlaid with the message that Taiwan's army was "on standby 24/7." "Many men and women serving in the armed forces will miss New Year's Eve dinners with their families, but they will not be absent from standing guard to protect the country," Taiwan's military posted on their official Facebook. Tensions between Beijing and Taipei have been steadily increasing since 2016. The Chinese government has been placing greater military and economic pressure on Taiwan, which Beijing regards as part of its sovereign territory despite over 70 years of separation. In January, Chinese President Xi Jinping warned Taiwan that independence was "a dead end" and called for "peaceful reunification." Beijing's video and the rapid response from Taipei are particularly unusual given the current Lunar New Year holiday on both sides of the Taiwan Strait, during which governments are largely closed as people take time off to celebrate with family and friends. Since the beginning of January, articles in Chinese state-run media outlets have repeatedly highlighted military recruiting efforts and the expanding global role of the PLA. On January 25, at a meeting of the country's powerful Politburo decision-making body, Xi stressed that the Communist Party needed to strengthen communication across a range of fronts. "The work of news and public opinion is facing new challenges as profound changes have taken place in the ecology of public opinion, the media landscape and the means of communication," state-run Xinhua quoted Xi as saying. Military analyst Carl Schuster, a former US Navy captain, said China had been ramping up its military propaganda targeted at Taiwan's citizens, as well as a wider domestic and international audience. "It is trying to convince them they cannot match China's military power, that defeat is inevitable and no one, not even the United States, will come to their aid," Schuster said.  Energy Secretary Rick Perry is the designated survivor Washington (CNN)Energy Secretary Rick Perry is stepping into the role of designated survivor, an administration official confirms to CNN, staying away from the Capitol in an undisclosed location as President Donald Trump delivers his second State of the Union address. Every year the administration appoints one member of the Cabinet to remain outside the House chamber during the State of the Union in case disaster strikes. Perry, the former governor of Texas, became the secretary of energy in March 2017. A veteran of the United States Air Force, Perry ran for president twice, in the 2012 and 2016 Republican primaries. He appeared as a contestant on "Dancing With the Stars" in the fall of 2016. Trump nominated his former rival for the Energy Department post in December 2016. It was business as usual for Perry on Tuesday. He attended the signing of the final investment decision for the Golden Pass LNG Export Terminal, where he also met with his Qatari counterpart Minister Saad Al-Kabbi. Later in the day, he met with acting Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan. The two discussed the Energy Department's "continuing role in protecting our nation, powering our nuclear navy, and protecting our Nation's grid," he said in a tweet. Then-Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin was the designated survivor during the President's 2017 address to a joint session of Congress. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Purdue filled the role during Trump's 2018 State of the Union speech. Perry is 14th in the presidential line of succession. The presidential line of succession is outlined in the Presidential Succession Act of 1792, which was updated during the Truman administration in the Presidential Succession Act of 1947. Even though three of the Cabinet positions are currently acting secretaries, they are eligible for the line of succession because they have been Senate-confirmed for other positions, according to 2003 congressional testimony from John Fortier, executive director of the continuity of government commission. The current line of succession is: 1. Vice President Mike Pence 2. Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi 3. Senate president pro tempore Chuck Grassley 4. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo 5. Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin 6. Acting Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan 7. Acting Attorney General Attorney General Matthew Whitaker 8. Acting Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt 9. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue 10. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross 11. Secretary of Labor Alex Acosta 12. Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar 13. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao* 14. Secretary of Energy Rick Perry 15. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos 16. Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert Wilkie 17. Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen *Transportation Sec. Elaine Chao was born in Taiwan and naturalized as a US citizen at 19 years old. She is ineligible to serve as President and therefore cannot be the designated survivor.  Toxic delicacy of shark fin causes ecosystem chaos, and consumers are pushing back Hong Kong (CNN)Adeline Chan's nose crinkled at the market's pungent, briny smell. Chan and her mother were once regulars at Hong Kong's Dried Seafood Market, in Sheung Wan, where endless stalls display plastic bins stuffed with various forms of dried shark fin. "We don't need shark fins for ourselves, but sharks need their fins," said Chan, now a vegan. "I stopped consuming shark fin soup four years ago after learning what sharks had to go through before a bowl of shark fin soup is served." But fins continue to be popular at these stores, along with other delicacies such as sea cucumbers, scallops and abalone. According to Hong Kong's tourism board, this seafood market has been around for at least 50 years, but the dried seafood trade can be traced to the 1860s, said Sidney Cheung, director of the Centre for Cultural Heritage Studies at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. Shark fin has long been a status symbol at Chinese dinners, particularly for wedding banquets. As much as half of the global supply has been found to pass through Hong Kong, the second-highest consumer of seafood in Asia at 71.8 kilograms (158 pounds) per person per year. This is more than three times the global average, according of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. And on Chinese New Year, many family dinners will include shark fin. Last year, the Hong Kong Shark Foundation found that over 80% of 291 Chinese New Year menus in Hong Kong included these dishes. A culture of fins For many Chinese families, culture dictates the consumption of shark fin. "There was an old saying in Hong Kong in the 1970s: 'To stir shark fin with rice.' It was used to describe the lifestyle of the wealthy, implying that they were rich enough to afford shark fin on a daily basis," said Tracy Tsang, manager of WWF-Hong Kong's Footprint program. "Today, the older generation still considers serving shark fin to their guests during banquets a sign of hospitality." Many people in China, Taiwan, Indonesia, Singapore, Macau and Vietnam all consume shark fin -- primarily the Chinese population. "The concept of 'no fin, no feast' is still deeply rooted in many people's minds," said Bowie Wu Fung, an 86-year-old Hong Kong actor who now speaks for WildAid, appearing on billboards in Hong Kong against shark fin consumption. Fung hopes to reach the older generation, who constitute the bulk of the buyers at Hong Kong's Dried Seafood Market. "Shark's fin is one of the 'four treasures' of Chinese dried seafood, along with fish maw, dried abalone and sea cucumber," said Daisann McLane, director of the gourmet food tour company Little Adventures in Hong Kong. "All four are expensive products that are valued for their rarity and also for their texture." The bigger the fin and the thicker the veining, the more expensive it is, store clerks at Hong Kong's Dried Seafood Market said. Prices can range from $90 Hong Kong dollars (about $12) for 600 grams (1.3 pounds) for small shredded pieces to $7,000 Hong Kong dollars (around $930) for 600 grams. According to a report released in 2016 by the conservation organization Traffic, shark fin prices can range from $99 to $591 per kilogram in Hong Kong. On the lower end, a shark fin set lunch can cost $80 Hong Kong dollars to 90 Hong Kong dollars ($11 to $12) at Chinese restaurants, while some upscale places charge up to $1,200 Hong Kong dollars ( $160) for a bowl of shark fin soup, Tsang said. 'A shark trading hub' More than 1 million tons of shark are caught each year, according to a 2018 study in Marine Policy, which named Hong Kong as the "world's biggest shark trading hub" where shark fin imports have doubled since 1960. Nearly 60% of the world's shark species are threatened, the highest proportion among all vertebrate groups, and the populations of some species, such as hammerhead and oceanic whitetip, have declined by more than 90% in recent years due to the shark fin soup trade, according to the study. DNA studies have further revealed that one-third of the shark species represented on the Hong Kong retail market may be threatened with extinction. "Sharks are in crisis," said Andy Cornish, leader of WWF's Global Shark and Ray Initiative. "The demand for shark fin in East and Southeast Asia and for shark meat in other parts of the world are the major drivers for the overfishing of sharks. This is, by far, the biggest cause of the shark population decline. Currently, 100% of shark fin sold in Hong Kong is from unsustainable and/or untraceable sources." Hong Kong customs seized at least 5 metric tons of illegal fins between 2014 and July 2018. From January to October 2018, there were six smuggling cases of endangered species of shark fins with seizure, involving a total of 236 kilograms (520 pounds) of dried shark fins, according to Hong Kong's Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department. But continued interest is putting the environment -- and humans -- at risk. Ecosystem chaos When a shark's fin is sliced off, the animal dies, said Yvonne Sadovy, lead author of the Marine Policy study and a professor in the School of Biological Sciences at the University of Hong Kong. "It cannot move, feed or swim, so it just starves to death on the sea bottom. Maybe it is like cutting the wings off a flying plane: The plane will be destroyed," she said. Sharks need their fins for steering, balancing and, for some, breathing. "There are sharks that must continue swimming to be able to breathe, as they rely on the forward motion to keep water passing through their gill slits and get oxygen," said Stan Shea, marine program director for the Bloom Association Hong Kong, a nonprofit that works to preserve the marine environment.  When their fins are cut off, "they are likely to die of suffocation, as they are no longer able to breathe by swimming forwards. (For others), they are unlikely to suffocate but die either by starvation or watching as other animals 'consume' them alive." In addition, as a predator at the top of the food chain, sharksa are critical to maintaining balance in the ecosystem, Shea said. Its loss could cause "behavioral change" and "chaos." For example, when numbers of sharks decrease, their prey will increase and overeat the next level on the food chain, which is why cownose rays wiped out the scallop population in North Carolina, Sadovy said. "Most sharks are important predators and therefore can play key roles in keeping ecosystems functioning. Depletion of sharks is expected to have negative effects on populations of prey species, many of which may be also be sharks, or rays," said Nick Dulvy, co-chairman of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature's Shark Specialist Group. 'Why the heck would you eat it?' Eating shark meat could be harmful to humans, too. Studies have found that sharks accumulate marine toxins, as long-lived predators at the top of the food chain. The levels of these toxins, including mercury, lead and arsenic, exceed recommended dietary levels, according to articles in Marine Pollution Bulletin. Hong Kong's Centre for Food Safety warned against the consumption of predatory fish species after finding a sample from a supermarket that contained a level of mercury eight times the permissible limit in 2017. "The main food safety concern for shark fin/meat and other large predatory fish is the accumulation of mercury, especially methylmercury," the center said in a statement. "Methylmercury is the most toxic form of mercury affecting the nervous system, particularly the developing brain. At high levels, mercury can affect fetal brain development, and affect vision, hearing, muscle coordination and memory in adults." In 2016, WildAid tested samples of raw shark fin samples from Hong Kong and Taiwan's dried seafood markets and found that all contained above the permissible amounts for arsenic and more than half exceeded levels for cadmium, a known carcinogen. "If something damages your brain, why ... would you eat it?" asked Deborah Mash, professor of neurology at the University of Miami. "There's also no good evidence for health benefits." A 2016 study by Mash found a cyanobacterial toxin in sharks fins linked to the neurodegenerative diseases Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, often called ALS. Analyzing 55 sharks across 10 species from the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, her team found that the majority contained the cyanobacterial toxin β-N-methylamino-l-alanine, together with another environmental toxin -- methylmercury -- which is known to accumulate in sharks. Traditional Chinese medicine may also have no need for shark fins. "To my knowledge, shark fin is never a part of Chinese medicine practice," said Professor Lixing Lao, director of the School of Chinese Medicine at the University of Hong Kong. "Chinese medicine community is nowadays very much aware of protection of endangered species to be used in the Chinese medicine practice." Besides, "shark fins have no taste on their own. It barely offers a crunchy texture when you bite into it," said executive chef Chan Yan Tak, the first Chinese chef to get three Michelin stars, at the Four Seasons in Hong Kong, which stopped serving shark fin in 2011. "The flavor comes from the soup: a superior stock that is boiled for eight hours with Yunnan ham, chicken and pork ribs." Increasingly, public attitudes toward shark fin are turning. Pushback from big voices According to parallel studies in 2009 and 2014, consumption of shark fin in the last year surveyed in Hong Kong went down from more than 70% to less than 45%. In contrast, the acceptability of excluding shark fin soup from weddings went up from around 78% to 92%, according to studies by the marine environment nonprofit Bloom Association of Hong Kong. WildAid and WWF-Hong Kong estimate that more than 18,000 hotels, 44 international airlines and 17 of the 19 largest container shipping lines have stopped serving shark fin and banned it from cargo, affecting close to three-quarters of global shipments. The volume of shark fin imported into Hong Kong has also dropped by half, from 10,210 metric tons in 2007 to 4,979 metric tons in 2017, according to Hong Kong's Census and Statistics Department. "It was a big challenge initially, getting customers to accept our shark fin policy," said Andy Chan, senior director of food and beverage for Shangri-La Hotels & Restaurants, which took shark fin off its menus in 2010. "We accepted that it would mean a substantial cut for our banqueting business. We initiated the policy because it was the right thing to do. We recognized that as a species, sharks are threatened with extinction, and if this happens, it would put the health of our oceans and fisheries at risk." Joining Shangri-La in pledging to stop the sale of shark fin are Cathay Pacific, Four Seasons and, most recently, the popular Hong Kong restaurant chain Maxim's, by 2020. The Four Seasons and some others offer a vegan version of the soup. "As more hotels and restaurants join together in this pledge, we send a strong signal to our community and can together help to reshape dining concepts around sustainability," Tak said. WWF and WildAid are working to persuade more companies to make the pledge against shark fin. Recently, WildAid campaigner Alex Hofford talked to the Fulum Group, one of the largest Hong Kong chains with more than 80 restaurants, about reviewing its policies. Citing the nonprofit's motto, Hofford said, "when the buying stops, the killing can, too."  US intelligence warns China is using student spies to steal secrets Washington (CNN)In August 2015, an electrical engineering student in Chicago sent an email to a Chinese national titled "Midterm test questions." More than two years later, the email would turn up in an FBI probe in the Southern District of Ohio involving a suspected Chinese intelligence officer who authorities believed was trying to acquire technical information from a defense contractor. Investigators took note. They identified the email's writer as Ji Chaoqun, a Chinese student who would go on to enlist in the US Army Reserve. His email, they say, had nothing to do with exams. Instead, at the direction of a high-level Chinese intelligence official, Ji allegedly attached background reports on eight US-based individuals who Beijing could target for potential recruitment as spies, according to a federal criminal complaint. The eight -- naturalized US citizens originally from Taiwan or China -- had worked in science and technology. Seven had worked for or recently retired from US defense contractors. The complaint says all of them were perceived as rich targets for a new form of espionage that China has been aggressively pursuing to win a silent war against the US for information and global influence. Ji was arrested in September last year, accused of acting as an "illegal agent" at the direction of a "high-level intelligence officer" of a provincial department of the Ministry of State Security, China's top espionage agency, the Department of Justice said at the time. He was formally indicted by a grand jury on January 24. Ji appeared in federal court in Chicago on Friday and pleaded not guilty, according to Joseph Fitzpatrick, a spokesman for the US attorney's office in Chicago. He is due to appear in court next on February 26 and will remain in detention until then, Fitzpatrick said. While Ji has not been convicted, the circumstances outlined in his case demonstrate how China is using people from all walks of life with increasing frequency, current and former US intelligence officials tell CNN. Beijing is leaning on expatriate Chinese scientists, businesspeople and students like Ji -- one of roughly 350,000 from China who study in the US every year -- to gain access to anything and everything at American universities and companies that's of interest to Beijing, according to current and former US intelligence officials, lawmakers and several experts. The sheer size of the Chinese student population at US universities presents a major challenge for law enforcement and intelligence agencies tasked with striking the necessary balance between protecting America's open academic environment and mitigating the risk to national security. While it remains unclear just how many of these students are on the radar of law enforcement, current and former intelligence officials told CNN that they all remain tethered to the Chinese government in some way, even if the vast majority aren't sent to the US to spy. It's part of a persistent, aggressive Chinese effort to undermine American industries, steal American secrets and eventually diminish American influence in the world so that Beijing can advance its own agenda, US officials, analysts and experts told CNN. CIA Director Gina Haspel warned last year that China intends "to diminish US influence to advance their own goals." China's alleged approach to espionage is taking on added urgency as ties between Beijing and Washington sour over trade differences, cyberattacks and standoffs over military influence in Asia. "We assess that China's intelligence services will exploit the openness of American society, especially academia and the scientific community, using a variety of means," according to the intelligence community's World Wide Threat Assessment released Tuesday. The problem is with the Chinese government, not the students themselves, a US official told CNN, adding that the counterintelligence issue is making sure those individuals are coming to the US for legitimate purposes and doing so in a way that avoids stereotyping. "We want to be able to tap into that talent pool and not lose them back to China," the official said. Lawmakers are also sounding the alarm. "There is no comparison to the breadth and scope of the Chinese threat facing America today, as they actively seek to supplant the US globally," Republican Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida told CNN, noting that Russia and China have taken similar approaches when it comes to nontraditional espionage. 'Covert influencers' For more than a decade, US law enforcement and intelligence officials have raised internal concerns about US universities becoming soft targets for foreign intelligence services that use students and staff to access emerging technologies, according to multiple former US officials. But in recent months, senior officials have expressed a renewed sense of urgency in addressing the issue and sought to increase public awareness by highlighting the threat during congressional testimony and while speaking at various security forums. While US officials stress that they believe the vast majority of Chinese students are here for legitimate purposes, they have also made it clear that the Trump administration continues to grapple with counterintelligence concerns posed by foreign agents seeking to exploit vulnerabilities within academic institutions. Rather than having trained spies attempt to infiltrate US universities and businesses, Chinese intelligence services have strategically utilized members of its student population to act as "access agents" or "covert influencers," according to Joe Augustyn, a former CIA officer with firsthand knowledge of the issue from his time at the agency. Creating this degree of separation allows the Chinese government to maintain some deniability should an operation become exposed, Augustyn said. "We allow 350,000 or so Chinese students here every year," William Evanina, director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center, said last April during an Aspen Institute conference. "That's a lot. We have a very liberal visa policy for them. Ninety-nine point nine percent of those students are here legitimately and doing great research and helping the global economy. But it is a tool that is used by the Chinese government to facilitate nefarious activity here in the US." Chinese students now constitute the largest foreign student body in the US, according to data from the Institute of International Education. US intelligence officials have taken note of the steady increase in Chinese students entering the country each year and are well aware of the challenges associated with that trend. Along with cyber-intrusion and strategic investing in American businesses, senior US intelligence officials told CNN on Tuesday that China is tapping into its network of students to compress the time it takes to acquire certain capabilities. "In a world where technology is available, where we are training their scientists and engineers, and their scientists and engineers were already good on their own, we are just making them able to not have to toil for the same amount of time to get capabilities that will rival or test us," a senior official in the office of Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats said. The Chinese government has pushed back strongly against these accusations, claiming they are rooted in racism and McCarthyism. Chinese state media has highlighted several high-profile cases of wrongly accused Chinese-American scientists to bolster the government's claims that US concerns are vastly overstated. "Such statements are completely untrue and made with ulterior motives. People-to-people exchanges form a basis for the promotion of China-US cooperation in all areas, which is in the common interest of both peoples," China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs told CNN in a statement. "We hope to see relevant agencies and people in the US correctly view and actively promote people-to-people exchanges between China and the US and create better conditions for bilateral cooperation and exchanges in all areas -- instead of doing the opposite," the statement added. 'They don't just come here to spy' But addressing that problem is difficult given the large population of Chinese students sent to the US each year. "We know without a doubt that anytime a graduate student from China comes to the US, they are briefed when they go, and briefed when they come back," according to Augustyn. "They don't just come here to spy ... they come here to study and a lot of it is legitimate," Augustyn said. "But there is no question in my mind, depending on where they are and what they are doing, that they have a role to play for their government." In Ji's case, he was first approached by a Chinese intelligence officer who, initially at least, used a false identity, according to FBI Special Agent Andrew McKay, who filed a criminal complaint against Ji in the US District Court in Chicago. The complaint charges Ji with one count of knowingly acting in the US as an agent of a foreign government without prior notification to the attorney general. Ji has been detained since his arrest in September, according to his lawyer. Like thousands of Chinese nationals who come to the US each year, Ji entered the country on an F1 visa -- used for international students in academic programs. Citing immigration records, the complaint states that Ji's goal, when he landed in Chicago in August 2013, was to study electrical engineering at the Illinois Institute of Technology, where he ultimately earned a master's degree. By December, Ji had been approached by the high-level Chinese intelligence official, who presented himself as a professor at Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics. Ji, now 27, eventually realized who this official and his colleagues really were, according to the criminal complaint. Still, court documents say he would funnel them background reports on other Chinese civilians living in the US who might be pressured to serve as spies -- in this case, in the strategically critical US industries of aerospace and technology. And he would lie to US officials about it, according to the complaint filed by FBI investigators. In their response, the Chinese government did not comment on the current status of Ji's case. But in September, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told CNN he was "unaware of the situation" when asked about Ji's arrest during a press briefing. According to the complaint, FBI agents discovered about 36 text messages on one iCloud account that Ji and the intelligence officer allegedly exchanged between December 2013 and July 2015. In 2016, after he graduated, Ji enlisted in the US Army Reserve under a program in which foreign nationals can be recruited if their skills are considered "vital to the national interest." As part of his Army interview and in his security clearance application, Ji was asked if he'd had contact with foreign security services, the complaint says. He answered "no." The Washington Post previously reported that Ji's case has been linked to the indictment of a Chinese intelligence officer named Xu Yanjun. Xu's indictment was unsealed in October after he was arrested in Belgium for allegedly stealing trade secrets from US aerospace companies. He is the first Chinese intelligence officer to be extradited for prosecution in the US. He has pleaded not guilty. Complex counter intelligence challenge FBI Director Christopher Wray, in the past year, has sought to focus repeatedly on the threat from China and its use of foreign students in US universities to try to get access to sensitive military and civilian research. "They're exploiting the very open research and development environment that we have," Wray told a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing last year, expressing concern that academic officials aren't taking the threat from China seriously enough. But on Tuesday, Wray told Senate lawmakers he has seen reasons for optimism. "One of the things that I've been most encouraged about in an otherwise bleak landscape is the degree to which -- as Director Coats was alluding to -- American companies are waking up, American universities are waking up, our foreign partners are waking up," Wray said. Still, the issue continues to pose a complex counterintelligence challenge for the US, as international exchange programs have largely played a positive role in fostering better relations with China, according to a recent study by the Hoover Institute. "Chinese students have helped to diversify the makeup of US student bodies, they often contribute positively in the classroom, and they have made a real contribution in joint research projects with university faculty," the report states. The Chinese are notorious for appealing to the nationalism and loyalty of their citizens to coerce them into carrying out acts of espionage, lawmakers and intelligence officials say. Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, the leading Democrat on the Senate's Select Committee on Intelligence, stressed that it is important to recognize "that the Chinese government has enormous power over its citizens." "In China, only the government can grant someone permission to leave the country to study or work in the United States and we have seen the Chinese government use their power over their citizens to, in some cases, encourage those citizens to commit acts of scientific or industrial espionage to the benefit of the Chinese government," he told CNN. The ruling Communist Party in China has tightened its grip over all aspects of Chinese society, including academia, under President Xi Jinping, who has routinely said that "the Party exercises overall leadership over all areas of endeavor in every part of the country." The State Department has considered implementing stricter vetting measures for F1 Visa applicants like Ji in an effort to address the problem, administration officials have told CNN, though the details of that plan remain unclear. The Trump administration has also insisted that any trade deal with China must address concerns about Beijing's use of covert operations to steal US government secrets and intellectual property belonging to American private-sector businesses. Ahead of President Donald Trump's December dinner meeting with Xi in Buenos Aires, the top US trade negotiator released a 50-page report showing Beijing had done little to fix unfair policies and that it continued to conduct and support cyber-enabled economic espionage that has stolen trillions of dollars in intellectual property. The Trump administration has said the huge waves of tariffs it has slapped on Chinese goods are part of an effort to stop Beijing from unfairly getting its hands on American technology. Prior to releasing the National Intelligence Strategy, The Office of the Director of National Intelligence issued new warnings and information to technology and aviation companies believed to be targets to help the private sector guard against growing threats from foreign intelligence entities and other adversaries. A US intelligence official told CNN that American companies need to be alert to the growing threat. "Whether it is a foreign national, student, businessman or through cyber means, companies need to know they are up against nations who want their information," the official said. US authorities are also taking action beyond just issuing warnings. Since August 2017, the Justice Department has indicted several individuals and corporations on charges related to economic espionage and intellectual property theft, predominantly in the aerospace and high-technology sectors. One October 2018 indictment accused two Chinese intelligence officers of attempting to hack and infiltrate private companies over the course of five years in an attempt to steal technology. The indictment also targeted six of what it said were the officers' paid hackers and two Chinese nationals, employed by a French aerospace company, who were allegedly told by the officers to obtain information about a turbofan engine developed in partnership with a US-based plane maker. The Chinese government did not respond to CNN's request for comment on the case but in October, China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang dismissed the charges as "sheer fiction and completely fabricated" when asked about the allegations. And prior to that, in September, US authorities arrested Ji for allegedly spying on behalf of Beijing. McKay and the FBI used search warrants to scour emails and texts that were used to piece together what they claim is the story of how Ji was lured in and exploited by his Chinese spymasters. They sent an undercover agent who pretended he'd been directed by Chinese intelligence to meet Ji after one of the student's alleged handlers had been arrested. Video and audio recordings captured Ji telling the undercover FBI officer he knew he'd been helping a "confidential unit" of the government -- exactly the actions he'd denied in his interviews for both a student visa and his entry to the US Army Reserve program, according to the complaint. "Ji specifically denied having had contact with a foreign government within the past seven years," the Department of Justice said in a press release, citing the complaint. Still, US officials say addressing the issue requires striking a delicate balance and more than just outreach. "Despite active engagement with academia, industry, and the greater public on this issue, however, foreign adversary efforts to exploit America's accessible academic environment continue to grow," E.W. Priestap, assistant director of the FBI's counterintelligence division, told lawmakers in June last year. "In particular, as internet access, cyber exploitation, transnational travel, and payment technologies proliferate, so, too, do foreign adversaries' options for exploiting America's schools for domestic gain." CNN's Donna Borak, Steven Jiang and Nicole Gaouette contributed to this report. Foxconn says it will build flat screens in Wisconsin after Trump call New York (CNN Business)Foxconn says it is returning to its plan to make flat screen panels at a new plant in Wisconsin following an appeal from President Donald Trump. The Taiwan-based electronics manufacturer caused a storm this week when it said it was considering dropping plans to build the panels at the facility, even though it said it was still anticipating hiring 13,000 workers. The company has been promised $4 billion in state and local incentives to develop the Wisconsin facility. In a statement Friday, Foxconn said that after a call between Trump and its chairman, Terry Gao, the company has decided to stick with its manufacturing plans after all. "Our decision is also based on a recent comprehensive and systematic evaluation to help determine the best fit for our Wisconsin project," the company said. A Foxconn spokesperson said she was not aware of any additional incentives or inducements that were offered to the company in the conversation with Trump. She also could not say how the decision affects the mix of work to be done on the site, or how many of the hired workers would be involved in manufacturing. She also could not say how many employees would be tech workers and engineers doing research and development. Earlier this week, Louis Woo, special assistant to Gou, told Reuters that the company planned to create a "technology hub" in Wisconsin rather than a factory promised by Trump and former Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker. The facility would largely consist of research facilities along with some packaging and assembly operations. Woo said three-quarters of Foxconn's eventual jobs will be in research and development and design, not blue-collar manufacturing jobs. He said it would not be a factory. Foxconn said changing global market conditions had made it reconsider plans to build flat screens in Wisconsin. It said that it would do some manufacturing on site, but would only commit to less extensive products, such as high-precision molding and system-integration assembly. It did not deny the statements made by Woo, including his comment that the Wisconsin plant could not compete in making flat screens. Those comments caused a stir because when Foxconn announced plans to build flat screen panels in Wisconsin, it was heralded by President Trump and his supporters as proof of manufacturing jobs moving back to the United States. Critics said the $4 billion package of tax breaks and incentives Foxconn received -- the richest ever offered to a foreign business to locate a plant -- was an example of corporate welfare. Trump on Friday hailed the company's decision to resume plans to build flat screens in Wisconsin. "Great news on Foxconn in Wisconsin after my conversation with Terry Gou!" he tweeted shortly after the announcement. Even still, Foxconn has scaled back plans from what was originally announced in late 2017 when it indicated it would build large flat screens, the types used in big screen televisions and other high end product. By groundbreaking last summer, it had shifted to much smaller flat screens, the types used in consumer electronic products like appliances and autos. It is the latter product, the small screens, that are back in its plans as of Friday. And Foxconn could not say how many of the flat screens it will build in Wisconsin under the latest plans as compared to its original announcement.

Some experts following the facility's development have doubts about whether Foxconn will ever follow through on completing the Wisconsin plant. Steven Deller, an economics professor at the University of Wisconsin, laughed when told of the latest announcement Friday afternoon, pointing to other promised Foxconn plants that were never built. "I think they're playing games," he said. "They've done the same thing to India, Brazil and Pennsylvania. They have a track record of making promises and not living up to them." Deller said from the beginning of the negotiations it made zero sense to build a flat screen plant in the United States. "These kinds of screens have become a commodity," he said. "The only way to be competitive is to drive costs down as much as possible. That means going to Asian markets for cheap labor. The R&D component, that makes sense. If you're looking at expanding your product line, it makes sense to do it in the US." CNN's Betsy Klein contributed to this story.  13 great places to celebrate Lunar New Year Want to strut your stuff in the Year of the Pig? If you're in Hong Kong -- or Vietnam, South Korea or anywhere else in the world with a Chinese diaspora -- it's time to don that tacky red jacket, gamble until you lose and eat till you burst. Yes, it's the Lunar New Year, or the Spring Festival. It usually lasts for 15 days from the first day of the lunar calendar (February 5 in 2019), and is the time when families get together to ring in the changes. While most will go to any lengths to get home to see the family, for some it's a chance to travel -- if only to get away from nagging relatives and red packet-hungry colleagues and friends (in China it's customary to dispense red paper envelopes filled with money at this time of year.) But traveling doesn't have to mean forgoing the festivities. Here are 13 destinations where you can celebrate Lunar New Year in your own way. Sha Tin Racecourse, Hong Kong Gambling is as close to a religion as it gets in Hong Kong and Lunar New Year is an auspicious time to try your luck. Held on the third day (February 7, 2019) of the Spring Festival, the Chinese New Year Race -- hosted at Sha Tin Racecourse -- is one of the most popular race days of the year. Even if you're not passionate about horse racing, the racecourse hosts live performances, a talk from a feng shui master and lucky draws to keep you occupied. February 7, free entry for tourists; first race at 12:30 p.m.; Sha Tin Racecourse, Sha Tin, Hong Kong Quang Ba Flower Market, Hanoi, Vietnam One essential must-have for Vietnam's Lunar New Year, or Tet, is a bunch of flowers and Hanoi's Quang Ba flower market works at a frenetic pace during the festival. Shoppers seek out the most eye-catching bouquets (usually peach blossom or ochna integerrima, the bright yellow blossom favored during Tet) amid the whirr and screech of the city's ubiquitous motorcycles, all transporting bright bunches of flowers on their pillions. The sights and sounds mixed with the fragrance of street food makes for a heady New Year sensual overload. Quang Ba Flower Market, Au Co Street, Tay H, Hanoi, Vietnam; open daily from about 3 a.m. Nuanquan Town, Hebei province, China With a population of less than 20,000 -- making it pretty much a tiny hamlet by Chinese standards -- Nuanquan usually flies below the tourist radar for most of the year. But on the 15th day of the Spring Festival, the sleepy town literally fires up with a spectacular grassroots "firework" display that has been UNESCO-listed as one of China's great examples of intangible cultural heritage. The da shuhua (translated as "beating tree flowers") tradition is believed to be more than 500 years old and culminates in a jaw-dropping display where the local blacksmith hurls ladles of molten iron at the city gates, producing a shower of sparks. March 1, Nuanquan Town Gyeongbokgung Palace, Seoul, South Korea Dating back to 1395, Gyeongbokgung Palace in the heart of Seoul is the most impressive royal palace in the city -- both historically and architecturally. On the first day of LNY, Gyeongbokgung Palace will hold celebrations that include traditional folk games and performances. Entry is free on that day. Gyeongbokgung Palace, 161 Sajik-ro, Sejongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul; +82 2 3700 3900 Chinatown, San Francisco For sure, Chinatown can be a tourist trap most of the time -- but what better time to embrace it than at Chinese New Year? As the largest Chinatown outside Asia, and the oldest in the United States, San Francisco's Chinatown knows how to put on a show during the buzz of Chinese New Year. A series of events is lined up for the 15-day festival, including a parade featuring more than a 100 floats and assorted performances including a 28-foot-long Golden Dragon float. Check its website for more information about the Grand Parade and other LNY activities. Ditan Park, Beijing Ditan Park doesn't just throw the biggest CNY party in China's capital city. Its annual Ditan Park Temple Fair also transports visitors back to a bygone era. The highlight of the fair is the reenactment of an imperial ceremony from the Qing Dynasty in which an "emperor" leads a crew of more than 100 performers to the Temple of the Earth to worship the gods. The performance will take place daily from February 5 to 9. The park will also be the venue for a food market complete with steaming cauldrons of delicious dumplings and spicy stews. Ditan Park Temple Fair, Ditan Park, Beijing Around the city, Sydney Home to one of the biggest overseas Chinese populations, Sydney is going all out during Lunar New Year. Many of the city's iconic landmarks including the Sydney Harbour Bridge will be illuminated bright red during the festival. Fireworks will be launched on the first day of the festival. Lunar Lanterns in the shape of the Chinese zodiac animals will be installed around the city. Check out Sydney's Chinese New Year events on the city's tourism website Raohe Night Market/Wu Lao Guo, Taipei For many, the Spring Festival is just another name for a two-week eating marathon and as a city famed for its street food, Taipei is an ideal place for a gluttonous holiday. Raohe night market is flanked by street food stalls and nostalgic sideshow games along its 600-meter length. Pepper cakes and fresh seafood skewers not your bag? Then why not share a bubbling hotpot with friends and family? Elixir Health Pot (or Wu Lao Guo) is a trendy hotpot restaurant chain specializing in -- either spicy or creamy -- herbal broths with added medicinal benefits. Raohe Night Market, Taipei Wu Lao Guohttp://www.wulao.com.tw/, 36-1, Section 2, Zhongshan North Road, Zhongshan District, Taipei City, Taiwan Central London, London San Francisco may have the biggest Chinatown outside Asia, but when it comes to doing the festival right, London claims to throw the biggest Lunar New Year party outside Asia. The day begins with a colorful Chinese parade that winds its way through the streets of the downtown West End district, followed by stage performances in Trafalgar Square. There are traditional dance troupes, acrobats, dragon and flying lion dances, opera and martial arts acts. The grand finale in Trafalgar Square ends with a fireworks spectacular. Check out VisitLondon's website for details of London's Lunar New Year celebrations Studio City, Macau Macau may be best known as a gambling mecca -- the Las Vegas of the South China Sea -- but the city has been upgrading its family-friendly entertainment offerings in recent years. Studio City is one of several integrated resorts to open in the gaming capital and features a 4D Batman simulator ride and a 40,000-square-foot Warner Bros-themed amusement center. If that's not enough, there's the gigantic golden figure-eight Ferris wheel situated in the Studio City skyscraper. The number eight in Chinese holds a special significance since the word has a similar pronunciation to the word for "wealth." Talk about auspicious. Studio City, Cotai, Macau Allas Sea Pool, Helsinki In Chinese culture, the preparations ahead of Lunar New Year are almost as important as the day itself. During this period cleansing is an important ritual. What better way to usher in the Year of the Pig than with a deep cleansing spa and sauna? Allas Sea Pool is a public Finnish sauna complex offering an amazing view of Helsinki. You can take a dip in one of the sea-facing pools before enjoying a steaming sauna session indoors. Before taking to the showers, why not get a friend or even a stranger to whip your back with birch twig bundles to get the circulation going. Allas Sea Pool, Katajanokanlaituri 2, Helsinki 00160 Finland Los Glaciares, Patagonia, Argentina If getting outside your comfort zone is one of your New Year's resolutions, the Spring Festival is a great time to make the first step. Stamina strengthening can be achieved by trekking the stunning Los Glaciares National Park in Argentina's Patagonia. The park is famous for its dramatic landscapes, including 47 large glaciers and three big lakes. January and February lie in the warmer summer months and are considered the ideal time to visit. Disney California Adventure Park/Universal Studios Hollywood, Los Angeles Imagine Megatron from "Transformers" greeting you with a cheery "ni hao" (Chinese for "hello"). Or Mickey Mouse fully kitted out in Chinese attire. No, it's not one of China's numerous copycat theme parks. This is how two of Los Angeles' most famous amusement parks -- Universal Studios Hollywood and Disney California Adventure Park -- are celebrating the Lunar New Year. Both parks are offering specially themed Lunar New Year activities to welcome the Year of the Pig, including parades, musical performances and special cuisine. Disney California Adventure Park, 1313 Harbor Blvd., Anaheim, California Universal Studios Hollywood, 100 Universal City Plaza, Universal City, California First published in 2018, updated in 2019. The meanings behind Lunar New Year's 'fortune' candies It's a classic Lunar New Year scene: Family and friends huddled over a red and gold candy box, unwrapping edible treats and shelling nuts. Though lesser known, these exquisitely decorated containers are as essential a part of the celebration as firecrackers and red envelopes. Every year, families pull them out from the back of the cupboard before the start of Lunar New Year, or Spring Festival, which lasts for 15 days from the first day of the lunar calendar (February 5 in 2019). It's a time of year when children are actually encouraged to devour sweets -- all in the hopes of experiencing an influx of fortune in the year to come. Hosts have to make sure each of the boxes' trays -- there are usually three to nine detachable compartments -- are stocked with specific "fortune" candies, which symbolize wealth, happiness and luck. "Cyun hap (LNY candy boxes) have a history that can be traced back for more than 1,000 years," says Gloria Chan, spokesperson for the Hong Kong Culture Heritage Studies and Promotion Association. "The traditional word 'cyun' means 'to put together, or to bring together.' "By putting all the fortune candies in one place, a cyun hap symbolizes bringing luck together and wishing blessings for the coming year." It's important to note the word "candy" should be used loosely and can refer to anything from seeds to dried fruit. Here's a look at some of the more common candy box inclusions: Roasted seeds: Sharing fortune When it comes to candy boxes, roasted seeds take center stage -- or tray in this case -- as eating them symbolizes the accumulation of fortune. "We produce around 70 to 80 tons of seeds every year -- and usually 50 tons of them will be sold during Lunar New Year," says Bao Yiu-wah, promotions manager at Shanghai Luk Kam Kee, Hong Kong's most popular family-owned seeds shop. Shanghai Luk Kam Kee (5 Tai Ho Road, Tsuen Wan, Hong Kong) has been selling seeds for more than half a century. It now operates three retail stores specializing in seeds as well as a seed-roasting factory in Hong Kong. "A long-time customer came just this morning to get 30 kilograms of seeds for friends and families who live in Singapore and Taiwan," Bao tells CNN Travel. "Our seeds are from carefully chosen farms. The melons are grown especially for their seeds -- not the flesh." The seeds will then be boiled -- in various ingredients from soy sauce to grounded coffee beans for different flavors -- before being fried till the seeds are crispy, dry and fragrant. "Most of our customers are over 60 now. Younger generations come usually for their parents," says Bao. "It'd be great if the tradition can last -- nothing beats families chatting at a table, shelling seeds while waiting for a big dinner." The essential 8 sweets Other must-haves in a traditional LNY box include the "eight sweets," which are actually candied fruits and vegetables -- lotus roots, coconut strips, carrots, lotus seeds, coconut wedges, winter melons, kumquats and water chestnuts. It's all about pronunciation, not taste. Most of their Chinese names sound similar to a word in Mandarin or Cantonese with positive associations. The Cantonese word for coconuts, for example, sounds like the word for grandfather-son in both Cantonese and Mandarin -- ye (grandfather) zi (son). It signifies a strong family bond and a big family. In addition to the eight sweets, pistachios (nicknamed "happy nuts" in Cantonese) and sesame balls (referred to as "laughing dates" in Cantonese) are popular because they look like they're cracking a smile. Modern variations Packaged sweets are becoming more common, too. Western candies like Ferrero Rocher and Almond Roca are a big hit during Spring Festival thanks to their golden wrappings. "There are more variations on candy boxes in recent years -- even New York brand Lady M is trying to blend in by introducing its own LNY candy box in Hong Kong," says Chan. Instead of stocking traditional sweets, the modern version from the New York cake shop features delicacies like Champagne white chocolate truffles. "I believe these modern adaptations are more attractive to the younger generations and foreigners. It encourages those who don't know much about the traditions of cyun hap to understand the meanings of Lunar New Year," says Chan. Check out the gallery at the top of this feature to find out more about the meanings behind some of the traditional box candies. Originally published in 2018, updated in 2019. Coming soon: 14 Asia hotels we can't wait to check into in 2019 It's quite the cocktail. With more than half the planet's population, massive infrastructure projects and rapid growth in air connectivity, the Asia-Pacific region is attracting more international tourists than any other part of the world. The UNWTO puts the total tourism earnings from Asian countries at a cool US$390 billion, much of which comes from the hotel sector. No surprise, then, that pretty much every Asia-Pacific destination you can think of seems to be opening new places to stay. We've already told you about the recent openings we're excited about. Now, here are some of the hottest new spots around the region due to open -- and in one case, reopen -- for business in 2019. Raffles Hotel, Singapore Arguably one of the most famous names in Asian hospitality, Raffles Hotel Singapore is set to re-open in mid-2019 following an extensive top-to-bottom renovation. New features include dining concepts by globally renowned celebrity chefs like Alain Ducasse, new categories of suites and a brand new Raffles Spa. There's 24-hour butler service and a Singapore Sling cocktail served to all guests on arrival, while a History Gallery illustrates the property's heritage dating back to 1887. Raffles Hotel Singapore has begun accepting suite reservations. Raffles Hotel Singapore, 1 Beach Rd, Singapore; +65 6337 1886 The Barracks Hotel, Singapore Another heritage building in Singapore undergoing a meticulous restoration is a former military outpost dating back to 1904. The Barracks Hotel at Sentosa, an island off Singapore's southern coast, offers 40 guestrooms and suites that promise elegant décor and the luxury of space. One key feature is set to be their pool -- always a welcome feature in a tropical climate -- which sits amid their tranquil gardens. Ground floor suites have direct access for taking a dip. The Barracks Hotel, 2 Gunner Lane, Sentosa Island, Singapore; +65 6512 2202 Capella Bangkok Bangkok is one of the world's greatest hotel cities, offering rooms at every conceivable price point. At the very top end of the scale, the "ultra-luxury" Capella on the banks of the Chao Phraya River is set to join the list. Opening in the second quarter of 2019, it will offer 100 guest rooms and villas that all boast views of the bustling and iconic waterway below. Gourmet restaurants include one from renowned Michelin-starred chef Mauro Colagreco, while a 9,000 sq. ft. Auriga Spa and pool will provide plenty of chances for serious downtime. Capella Bangkok, 300 Charoenkrung Road,Yannawa, Sathorn, Bangkok, Thailand; +66 2 658 7888 Rosewood Bangkok Moving to another prime location in the Thai capital, Rosewood Bangkok is located in heart of the central business district, amidst embassies and upscale retail options. The property will offer 159 guestrooms that include Pool Sky Villas featuring large terraces and private plunge pools. Three restaurants and bars, meeting and function spaces and an extensive Rosewood Spa complete the picture. Panoramic views of Bangkok's iconic skyline come as standard, especially from the Sky Villa event venue on the top floor. Rosewood Bangkok, 1041/38 Ploenchit Road, Bangkok +852 2138 2222 Four Seasons Bangkok at Chao Phraya River The third quarter of 2019 is when the Four Seasons Hotel Bangkok at Chao Phraya River is due to start receiving guests. The nine acre waterside site will host an architecturally striking property designed to integrate seamlessly into the landscape. With 299 keys -- that's rooms and suites to those not in the industry -- the property is positioning itself as an urban resort experience. That's thanks in part to a series of uniquely designed green courtyards that thread through the site. Three restaurants will focus on Italian, French and Chinese cuisine, as well as a Latin American inspired social club and bar. Four Seasons Bangkok at Chao Phraya River, 300 Charoenkrung Road, Yannawa, Sathorn, Bangkok; +66 2 043 0888 Waldorf Astoria Maldives The Maldives is home to some of the world's most stunning islands and beaches. Joining the already wide range of luxury properties here is the Waldorf Astoria Maldives Ithaafushi, a tropical retreat of 121 oversized villas spread across no fewer than three islands in the South Malé Atoll. Each has an infinity pool and stunning ocean views. Meanwhile, amongst their 10 dining venues, the Instagram-worthy award will surely go to their elevated treetop restaurant. Water sports and spa treatments are set to round off your trip to paradise. This one is opening in April. And unlike many Maldives resorts, you don't need to take a sea plane to get there. It's just 30 minutes from Male International Airport by yacht. Waldorf Astoria Maldives Ithaafushi, South Male Atoll, Male, Maldives; +960 4 000300 Lelewatu Sumba Island Indonesia The Indonesian island of Sumba may lack the recognition of Bali or Lombok, but its relatively unknown status helps make it a draw for high-end travelers. Rich culture, deserted beaches and some of the country's best surfing spots are partly why Lelewatu Resort Sumba will debut there later this year. Just 27 villas occupy a 10-acre site, each of which are made with authentic local materials, handicrafts and techniques. Views from the clifftop residences look out over both a private lagoon and the Indian Ocean, making for picture-perfect sunsets. Lelewatu Resort Sumba, JL. Lelewatu No. 168 Wei Mangoma, Kecamatan, Wanokaka, Sumba Barat, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Indonesia; +62 361 233 708 Art Series Hotel Brisbane The Art Series Hotels brand recently joined AccorHotels and their forthcoming opening in Brisbane's Howard Smith Wharves -- opening in March -- is their eighth property. An estimated $60 million has been spent on the hotel, which has been partly built into a cliff under the city's Story Bridge. It features 166 guest rooms, four dining outlets and a pool on the rooftop looking out over the Brisbane River below. The skyline of the capital of the state of Queensland can also be seen from rooms across the six stories, each of which celebrates contemporary Australian artists. Art Series Hotel Brisbane, 5 Boundary St, Brisbane City QLD; +61 2 9280 2133 Mandarin Oriental Wangfujing, Beijing The acclaimed luxury hospitality brand Mandarin Oriental is set to open their first hotel in the Chinese capital early this year with the launch of Mandarin Oriental Wangfujing, Beijing. The property occupies the top floors of the new WF Central development, giving it outstanding views of landmarks across the city, including the Forbidden City. Just 74 spacious guestrooms and suites are elegantly styled, while garden terraces evoke grand residences from centuries past. Dining options include their signature Mandarin Grill + Bar and casual Asian plates at Café Zi. Mandarin Oriental Wangfujing, No. 269 Wangfujing Street, Beijing, China; +86 10 8509 8888 St. Regis Hong Kong The first St. Regis brand to launch in Hong Kong is located in the city's always-bustling Wan Chai district. Hong Kong-based interior designer André Fu has created the interiors of the 129-suite property, due to open in mid-2019. . One of the St. Regis' biggest draws will be its views over iconic Victoria Harbor and Kowloon Bay, but eyes will also be drawn to the two signature Chinese and French restaurants, Rùn and L'Envol respectively. There's also a pool, open-air terrace and St. Regis Bar serving their signature Bloody Mary, while butler service reflects the traditions laid down by the first St. Regis hotel opening in New York, back in 1904. The St. Regis Hong Kong, 26 Harbour Rd, Wan Chai, Hong Kong; Rosewood Hong Kong The Hong Kong hotel for 2019 with views to beat all newcomers must be the Rosewood Hong Kong. As the luxury brand debuts in its home city -- its owned by Hong Kong hotel-and-property company New World Development -- those panoramas come thanks to the hotel occupying 43 floors of a waterfront tower in the Victoria Dockside arts, design and retail district in the heart of Tsim Sha Tsui. Opening March 17, it features 322 guestrooms sized from 570 sq. ft, as well as 91 suites starting at 990 sq. ft, making them some of the city's largest. For those for whom budget is not a concern, then the 10,764 sq. ft Harbour House on the 57th floor should do nicely, complete with its own pool, gym and gardens. Eight dining concepts and a spa are set to make the property as popular with locals as with visitors. Rosewood Hong Kong, Victoria Dockside, 18 Salisbury Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong; +852 3891 8888 Hoshinoya Guguan, Taiwan The traditional ryokan inn has been welcoming Japanese travelers for centuries, but Hoshinoya has made a name for itself by offering a contemporary take on these gracious accommodation options. The Japan-based brand is set to launch its first Taiwan property in Taiwan in the summer. Luxury hot springs resort Hoshinoya Guguan sits in a valley surrounded by mountains. Guests are first led through a bamboo forest before reaching a futuristic reception area and enjoying the cuisine, service and local touches that define a ryokan. Hoshinoya Guguan, No.16, Wenquan Ln., Sec. 1, Dongguan Rd., Heping Dist., Taichung City, Taiwan, +81 50 3786 1144 The Chedi Mumbai, India The Powai district of Mumbai, India's beguiling and most populous city, is changing rapidly and The Chedi Mumbai is contributing to the momentum with its 312 guestrooms. Many overlook Powai Lake and the city's skyline. An exceptional line-up of dining options include their all-day dining spot called The Vegetarian, a Japanese restaurant by renowned Michelin-starred chef Hide Yamamoto and even a spot inspired by Switzerland, The Chesa. Spa and wellness facilities help guests work off any dining excesses. The Chedi Mumbai, LBS Marg & JVLR Junction, Kanjurmarg West, Mumbai, India; +91 22 6731 5555 The PuXuan Hotel and Spa, Beijing Another one to watch in the Chinese capital, The PuXuan Hotel and Spa, Beijing is set in the heart of the commercial district. A 116-room luxury property opening this month, it offers views across the Forbidden City, while its interior design brings a modern take on the old "hutong" alleyways that used to dot the city. Unique features include a guarantee that you can check-in at any time during the 24 hours of your stay, while Chinese culture and arts permeate the property and reflect local heritage. A complimentary mini bar should also ensure downtime is well spent, too. The PuXuan Hotel and Spa, Beijing, 1 Wangfujing Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China; +86 010 5393 6688 Gang arrested over alleged $80 million gold scam in Hong Kong (CNN)Hong Kong police have arrested 14 people who allegedly defrauded seven victims of $80 million -- including an 85-year-old man who lost upwards of $73.9 million. The group is accused of operating a fake investment firm which allegedly induced victims to hand over huge amounts of cash, ostensibly for investing in gold and other commodities. Police said 12 men and two women were arrested after a months-long investigation into a scheme known as the "London Gold" scam. After being cold-called or contacted on social media, the victims were allegedly encouraged to authorize investment in the precious metal on the London commodities market, along with other investment products. The company allegedly later told victims that their investments had failed. Citizens of Hong Kong, Taiwan, the United States, Australia, Canada and New Zealand were among the victims, the South China Morning Post reported. The Post reported that the 85-year-old retiree finally raised the alarm after making "many" transactions with the alleged fraudsters since 2016. Those arrested ranged in age from 20 and 72, police said. In addition to documents, computers, phones and other paraphernalia seized by police, bank accounts containing about $28 million were frozen. Police said 285 people had been arrested over different "London Gold" scams between 2016 and October 2018. CNN's Angie Chan contributed to this report. Singapore's decades-long quest to be Asia's new art hub Singapore Art Week is now in full swing, but one event is conspicuous by its absence. The annual fair Art Stage Singapore -- once the centerpiece of the week-long program -- was canceled with just nine days' notice, leaving galleries out of pocket and scrabbling for venues to show their work. In an email sent to exhibitors, many of whom had already shipped works to the city, the fair's founder and director Lorenzo Rudolf asked galleries to "cease all preparations ... or to reverse them." This proved impossible for some. Organizers are yet to offer guarantees of remuneration or an official explanation, and have yet to respond to CNN's multiple requests for comment. But the numbers tell a story by themselves -- not just of Art Stage Singapore's fate, but of the country's seemingly saturated art market. Launched in 2011 as a hub connecting international buyers with contemporary Asian art, the 2016 fair sold 143 booths, attracting galleries from Asia and beyond. But this number has fallen in each year since, with just 97 exhibitors reported to have signed up in 2018 and fewer than 50 billed to appear this year, before the fair's cancellation. Visitor numbers fell too: from more than 50,000 in 2015 to 26,500 at the last edition. This decline has been echoed elsewhere in the country's packed arts calendar. The Singapore Contemporary Art Show, launched in 2016, ceased operations after just two editions, while the Affordable Art Fair, which focused on local collectors, went annual (rather than biannual) amid reports of declining sales. Yet, new events have emerged in their place. The new S.E.A. Focus fair, held for the first time this week, is more geared toward southeast Asian art than Art Stage Singapore was, although its timing put them in direct competition. And a new large-scale venture, Art SG, is set launch this November, promising 60 to 70 "established and experimental galleries from Singapore, Southeast Asia and the world." London-based dealer Tanya Baxter, whose eponymous gallery was due to appear at Art Stage Singapore, points to growing competition and the abundance of events as a problem for the city's art market. She also suggested that stilted galleries might stand to lose anything from £10,000 to £40,000 ($13,000 to $52,000) if the fair doesn't provide compensation. "It was packed and confusing," she said of the country's arts program in a phone interview, "and people get conflicted." "I think (Singapore is) ambitious, but it tries too much," she added. But Baxter sees Art Stage's demise as indicative of organizers' mismanagement, rather than a stagnating art market (she reports robust sales at the fair in recent years). It's a view shared by Jasdeep Sandhu, founder of Singapore's Gajah Gallery, who has previously exhibited at Art Stage. "Fifteen, twenty years ago, the Singapore art market was in the doldrums -- prices couldn't sustain a decent art economy here," he said in a phone interview. "In 2006, 2007 and 2008 an art boom started and just moved everything up. It's come down from the highs (of a few years ago). But if you look at a 15-year perspective, it's still very much on the up." Regional competition From the late 1980s Singapore has tried to position itself as an international force in the arts world. Since 1991, the National Arts Council (NAC) has offered significant funding at all levels of the arts and culture sectors. The government's ambitions were more formally articulated in the 2000 initiative dubbed the Renaissance City Plan, which aimed to use generous public funding to "establish Singapore as a global arts city." Citing places like New York and London as benchmarks, the initiative has aimed to build arts infrastructure, develop grassroots arts and internationalize Singapore's offering. In the last financial year, the NAC handed out more than 68 million Singapore dollars ($51 million) in grants, scholarships and bursaries. As well as providing support to artists, public money is responsible for a huge number of arts events and initiatives around the city. Recent years have seen the launch of a Singapore Biennale, in 2006, a School of the Arts, in 2008 and a National Gallery, in 2015. The plan appears to have borne fruit: Between 1996 and 2015, yearly attendance at ticketed arts events increased from 750,000 to more than 1.9 million, while the "value added" by the arts and culture sector to Singapore's economy tripled to $1.7 billion, according to official figures. Yet, Singapore's ambitions to become a regional hub for international collectors faces significant challenges from elsewhere in Asia. The now-reticent Art Stage founder, Lorenzo Rudolf, has previously decried "stagnation" in the country's art scene, citing "booms" in other countries like Philippines and Thailand. Emerging markets like Indonesia and mainland China have launched major commercial art events in recent years. And, last week, Taiwan opened its inaugural Taipei Dangdai fair, grabbing the region's attention just days ahead of the ill-fated Singapore fair, which was due to open today. (Sandhu said that his participation at Taipei Dangdai was a major reason why he didn't sign up for Art Stage.) Perhaps most prominently, Art Basel Hong Kong -- which Rudolf himself helped build into an art world powerhouse -- still dominates Asia's fair market, attracting more than 240 exhibitors and 80,000 attendees last year. "The Singapore market obviously pales in insignificance to Hong Kong, but it gets a lot of collectors from the region and they are strong collectors," said Baxter. "Hong Kong became an international player and there's no reason why Singapore can't. If you look at the whole area, it's a huge region with a lot of wealth. "Singapore doesn't have to be in first place," she added. "It can be a really nice mirror to Hong Kong." Sandhu, who founded his gallery more than 20 years ago, also plays down the comparison between the two cities. "Hong Kong is a completely different model, and if you look at Hong Kong you might trip yourself up," he said. "We have a very distinct art culture in this part of the world." Developing an arts scene While known as a hub for collectors in Asia, Singapore is not renowned for its homegrown art. For Sandhu, state funding -- which still accounts for a huge portion of arts spending in Singapore -- is helping to improve the city-state's grassroots art scene. "Singapore has never been known as a city that produces artists but (the government) started building infrastructure and improving art schools almost 30 years ago," he said. "You now have a very sustainable art community where young artists can actually survive." But for Singaporean photographer Nguan, whose work has been exhibited at galleries in the city, public money acts as a barrier to a thriving art scene. "I wasn't surprised by Art Stage's demise," he said over email. "(But) I don't think the absence of a booming art market is necessarily a bad thing -- the commercial art market in Japan, for example, is also relatively small, but their museums are packed. "Our authorities have spent a lot of money trying to manufacture an art scene in the most inorganic of ways," he added. "I think they're finding that a culture of art-making and appreciation cannot be developed as if it were a piece of land. "Art has to happen in the cracks; organically, or not at all," said Nguan, who called for reduced regulation on exhibitions and tax incentives to encourage private investment in the arts. Whatever Singapore's commercial fortunes, its art community can take heart from the solidarity displayed during the past week. A Facebook page, "Art Stage SOS," has been established to help stranded participants find new ways to exhibit their work. And the not-for-profit group Art Outreach has arranged a pop-up fair at the original venue -- Singapore's famous Marina Bay Sands -- which will run across Art Stage's original dates. "It is heartening though to see many galleries and groups coming forward to support the affected exhibitors," said Singapore's minister for culture, Grace Fu, at the opening of the S.E.A Focus fair Wednesday evening, according to a NAC transcript. "The camaraderie and strong spirit of the arts sector was in full demonstration. "That we can respond so well and so quickly to the situation that Art Stage created, shows the network and depth of the Singapore visual arts ecosystem." US Navy sails warships through Taiwan Strait (CNN)The US Navy sailed two ships through the Taiwan Strait on Thursday, according to the US Pacific Fleet, which oversees operations in the area. The guided missile destroyer USS McCampbell and the USNS Walter S. Diehl "conducted a routine Taiwan Strait Transit" that was "in accordance with international law," US Pacific Fleet spokesman Lt. Cmdr. Tim Gorman told CNN. "The ships' transit through the Taiwan Strait demonstrates the US commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. The US Navy will continue to fly, sail and operate anywhere international law allows," Gorman added. The US Navy also sailed two ships through the Strait in October and November, operations that were shadowed by multiple Chinese warships. The US had conducted a similar operation in July. Prior to that, the transits occurred only about once a year. The approximately 110-mile-wide strait, which separates the People's Republic of China and Taiwan, is seen as a potential geopolitical flashpoint should Beijing ever seek to take the island of Taiwan by force. Beijing continues to lay claim to Taiwan, a self-governed, democratic island that China views as a breakaway province. While the strait constitutes international waters, China is thought to be very sensitive about the presence of US military forces there. The US Defense Intelligence Agency issued a report earlier this month saying that China has undertaken a series of ambitious military reforms and acquired new technology, modernization steps the report said were driven primarily by "Beijing's longstanding interest to eventually compel Taiwan's reunification with the mainland and deter any attempt by Taiwan to declare independence." "Beijing's anticipation that foreign forces would intervene in a Taiwan scenario led the (People's Liberation Army) to develop a range of systems to deter and deny foreign regional force projection," the report added. America's top naval officer, Chief of Naval Operations Adm. John Richardson, met with his Chinese counterparts earlier this month, with Chinese military officers raising the issue of Taiwan, according to a report on the Chinese military's English-language website. "If someone tries to split Taiwan from China, the Chinese military will do whatever it takes to safeguard national reunification, national sovereignty and territorial integrity," Gen. Li Zuocheng, a member of China's Central Military Commission, reportedly told Richardson. Following his China visit, his second as chief of naval operations, Richardson said the US Navy would continue to send warships wherever international law allows. "We see the Taiwan Straits as another (set of) international waters, and so that's why we do the transits through the straits, is again just exercising the right to pass through those waters in accordance with international law," Richardson said last Friday while speaking in Tokyo. Earlier this month, China's President Xi Jinping called on Taiwan to reject independence and embrace "peaceful reunification" with China in a conciliatory speech that nevertheless took a hard line on the island's political sovereignty and freedoms. The Chinese leader added that "we make no promise to renounce the use of force. We reserve the option for all the necessary means." In response to Xi's speech, Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen said the island will "never accept" a "one country, two systems" arrangement with China. Richardson said he had told his Chinese counterparts that US policy toward Taiwan had not changed and the US remains "opposed to any kind of unilateral action from either side of the strait that would change that status quo."  Taiwan airline investigating claims passenger forced attendants to undress and clean him (CNN)A Taiwanese airline says it may ban an overweight passenger who allegedly forced members of an all-female cabin crew to undress him in the lavatory and then clean him after he used the toilet. The incident, first posted on social media by a flight attendant and some passengers, has caused uproar in Taiwan and across parts of Asia, sparking debate about what some see as the overly pro-customer corporate culture of many Asian firms in service sectors. At a press conference in Taipei on Monday, one of the flight attendants involved tearfully recounted her traumatizing experience on EVA Air Flight 15, which took off from Los Angeles last Thursday. The passenger, a Caucasian man who appears to weigh over 200 kilograms (440 pounds), boarded the Taipei-bound flight in a wheelchair and was seated in the economy cabin. Two and a half hours into the 14-hour journey, he asked to use the business class lavatory, according to the flight attendant, who declined to be named. The airline has not released the name of the passenger. After the flight attendant and two colleagues helped him into the lavatory, the man allegedly demanded she pull down his underwear, insisting that he was unable to do so because of surgery to his right hand. The flight attendant said she eventually agreed, albeit reluctantly, but the man slapped her wrist when she tried to cover his exposed genitals with a blanket. Claiming he found it difficult to breathe, the man wanted the lavatory door left open -- a request that was refused, the flight attendant said. He then allegedly asked the cabin crew to help wipe his backside for him. Calls to ban passenger Faced with threats that he would refuse to leave the lavatory, the flight attendant told reporters she had to prop up the man -- four times her weight -- from the front as a co-worker cleaned him. "I'll never forget that moment: With his feces still in the toilet, I had nowhere to escape," she said. "Now every time I'm forced to relive what happened in my mind, I feel traumatized." Many social media users have called for the "disgusting" passenger to be barred from flying or prosecuted for alleged sexual harassment. Supporters of the cabin crew have also blamed the corporate culture of many Asian service-sector companies that insist the "customer is always right" while, according to critics, ignoring employees' welfare -- especially after it was revealed the passenger appeared to be a repeat offender. At the Monday press conference, the flight attendant was accompanied by a representative of the local flight attendants' union and fellow EVA employee. The union representative told reporters the man had flown EVA from the US to Asia numerous times. He had defecated in his seat during a flight last May after the crew rejected his demands, causing a foul smell in the entire cabin for over 10 hours, the representative said. Another union representative said the passenger's behavior should be considered sexual harassment. EVA, which is known for hiring only female flight attendants, defended its treatment of the passenger in a press statement Monday, saying he had flown with the airline more than 20 times and mostly without incident. Expressing its "sincere gratitude" to the cabin crew for their actions during his latest trip, the airline pledged to further investigate the passenger and explore options -- ranging from placing him on a "no-fly" list to requiring someone to accompany him on flights. The company denied it had punished flight attendants for rejecting similar customer demands in the past.  Taiwan holds military drills to halt invasion amid rising China tensions Beijing (CNN)Taiwan's military held large-scale drills on its west coast Thursday amid growing tensions between the self-governed island and an increasingly belligerent Beijing. Aimed at thwarting an amphibious invasion, Taiwan's armed forces dispatched tanks, rocket launchers and combat helicopters to beaches near Taichung for the island's first live-fire drills of the year. "Our military stands ready to counter any threats ... including those from Communist China," Maj. Gen. Chen Chung-chi, a spokesman for Taiwan's defense ministry, told CNN. "These drills are based on the principle of 'conduct training wherever wars might break out,'" he added. "We are prepared to maintain our territory and freedom." Chen declined to comment on the size of the troops or the types of weaponry involved. The first phase of the drills will continue until the end of the January. Although Taiwan holds exercises regularly, the latest war games sharpened their focus on combat readiness as Chinese President Xi Jinping heightens pressure on the self-ruled and democratic island of 23 million people. "Reunification is the historical trend and the right path, Taiwan independence is ... a dead end," Xi said in a January speech. Echoing Xi, a top Chinese general on Tuesday told the visiting US chief of naval operations that "if someone tries to split Taiwan from China, the Chinese military will do whatever it takes to safeguard national reunification, national sovereignty and territorial integrity." A US government report published the same day said the Chinese government has made a series of ambitious military reforms and acquired new technology over the past few years, to improve its military's ability to fight regional conflicts over places like Taiwan. China and Taiwan split in 1949 following the Communist victory on the mainland in a bloody civil war. Despite being governed separately for seven decades, Beijing still considers the island part of its territory and routinely threatens the use of force to take it back. The US maintains formal diplomatic relations only with Beijing, but Taiwan remains an important American ally in the region. Under President Donald Trump, close unofficial ties between the US and Taiwan have grown even stronger. In the face of Beijing's disapproval, Washington continues to sell advanced weapons to the island under the Taiwan Relations Act for its self-defense against a much bigger Chinese military. More recently, the Trump administration angered Beijing by authorizing US manufacturers to sell submarine technology to Taiwan, as well as enacting the Taiwan Travel Act to encourage official visits between the US and the island.  US report says rapidly modernizing Chinese military has set sights on Taiwan (CNN)Over the last few years China has made a series of ambitious military reforms and acquired new technology as it aims to improve its ability to fight regional conflicts over places like Taiwan, according to a new report from the US Defense Intelligence Agency. "Beijing's longstanding interest to eventually compel Taiwan's reunification with the mainland and deter any attempt by Taiwan to declare independence has served as the primary driver for China's military modernization," said the agency's report, titled "China's Military Power." The report, which was published Tuesday, added that "Beijing's anticipation that foreign forces would intervene in a Taiwan scenario led the (People's Liberation Army) to develop a range of systems to deter and deny foreign regional force projection." Earlier Tuesday in Beijing, China made plain to the US military that it is will countenance no interference on Taiwan, according to a report on the Chinese military's English-language website. "If someone tries to split Taiwan from China, the Chinese military will do whatever it takes to safeguard national reunification, national sovereignty and territorial integrity," Gen. Li Zuocheng, a member of China's Central Military Commission, told the US chief of naval operations, Adm. John Richardson, who is on a four-day visit to China. The US DIA report estimates that Chinese spending on its armed forces "probably exceeded $200 billion" in 2018, "a threefold increase since 2002." In a written introduction accompanying the report, the Defense Intelligence Agency's director, Lt. Gen. Robert Ashley, wrote that China has used a variety of means to acquire advanced technology to bolster its military capabilities despite some countries attempting to limit its access to that technology over international concerns about Beijing's human rights policies. "China shifted funds and efforts to acquiring technology by any means available. Domestic laws forced foreign partners of Chinese-based joint ventures to release their technology in exchange for entry into China's lucrative market, and China has used other means to secure needed technology and expertise," Ashley said. While the report acknowledges that China spends significantly less on defense than the some $700 billion invested by the US in 2018, it says Beijing enjoys an advantage due to the fact that "China has not had to invest in costly R&D of new technologies to the same degree as the United States." "Rather, China has routinely adopted the best and most effective platforms found in foreign militaries through direct purchase, retrofits, or theft of intellectual property. By doing so, China has been able to focus on expediting its military modernization at a small fraction of the original cost," it said. 'Most modern weapon systems in the world' China is "on the verge of fielding some of the most modern weapon systems in the world. In some areas, it already leads the world," Ashley wrote. A senior defense official said the US was concerned that China's increased capabilities may lead its military commanders to advise its political leaders that they were confident of military success with regard to a campaign against Taiwan. "The biggest concern is that they are going to get to -- they are getting to a point where the PLA leadership may actually tell Xi Jinping that they are confident in their capabilities," the official said, referring to China's leader. The report notes that the vast majority of China's missile arsenal is capable of hitting Taiwan while also pointing out that Beijing has developed new weapons systems like the H-6 bomber armed with CJ-20 cruise missiles, which it says is capable of striking areas farther afield, such as US military installations on Guam. It says, "China has built or acquired a wide array of advanced platforms," including submarines, major surface combat ships, missile patrol craft, maritime strike aircraft and land-based systems that employ new, sophisticated anti-ship cruise missiles and surface-to-air missiles. "China also has developed the world's first roadmobile, anti-ship ballistic missile, a system specifically designed to attack enemy aircraft carriers," it says. "China's leaders hope that possessing these military capabilities will deter pro-independence moves by Taiwan or, should deterrence fail, will permit a range of tailored military options against Taiwan and potential third-party military intervention," the report said. Earlier this month Xi called on Taiwan to reject independence and embrace "peaceful reunification" with China in a conciliatory speech that nevertheless took a hard line on the self-governing island's political sovereignty and freedoms. And the Chinese leader added that "we make no promise to renounce the use of force. We reserve the option for all the necessary means." In response to Xi's speech, Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen said the island will "never accept" a "one country, two systems" arrangement with China. While the report says China has increased its military footprint in the South China Sea and has placed additional military facilities on man-made islands there, the Pentagon assesses that China is seeking to avoid a conflict. "I think both sides have managed to operate professionally. And we have -- it's not in the Chinese interests for a crisis to spiral in the South China Sea. I think that they are fairly comfortable with the progress they've made in building out this infrastructure down there, and then working on negotiations with the other claimant states over a longer term," the senior defense official said. During his China visit, Adm. Richardson said the US Navy would continue to send warships wherever international law allows, something the Pentagon says when undertaking so-called "freedom of navigation" operations near Chinese-claimed territory in the South China Sea. "The US Navy will continue to conduct routine and lawful operations around the world, in order to protect the rights, freedoms and lawful uses of sea and airspace guaranteed to all," Richardson said in a China-datelined story posted on the US Navy's website. He also called on China to avoid dangerous maneuvers during those US operations. "It important for all military, law enforcement, and civilian vessels and aircraft, including those in the PLA Navy, the Chinese Coast Guard, and the People's Armed Forces Maritime Militia, to operate in a safe and professional manner, in accordance with international law," Richardson is quoted as saying. "Consistent operations and behavior are critical to preventing miscalculation." Last fall, the Chinese destroyer Lanzhou came within 45 yards (41 meters) of the guided-missile destroyer USS Decatur near the Spratly Islands in an encounter the US called "unsafe." CNN's Brad Lendon contributed to this report. Taiwan appoints new Premier amid rising China tensions Beijing (CNN)Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen on Friday appointed a senior figure from her pro-independence ruling party as the island's new Premier amid growing tensions with China. Su Tseng-chang, 71, a former chairman of the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), was chosen to replace William Lai after the party suffered a bruising defeat in local elections last November. Lai formally resigned earlier Friday, along with the entire Cabinet, taking responsibility for the party's losses. Tsai also resigned as DPP leader following the elections, though she remains president. "Premier Su has three strengths that Taiwan needs at the moment: experience, vigor and the ability to execute (policies)," she said in a speech at the Presidential Palace Friday. Tsai is facing mounting pressure both at home -- where her progressive reform agenda has faced setbacks -- and from across the Taiwan Strait. Last week, Chinese President Xi Jinping called on Taiwan to reject moves towards formal independence and embrace "peaceful reunification" with his country, suggesting the island adopt the concept of "one country, two systems" as used in Hong Kong when China regained sovereignty over the city from the UK in 1997. While his speech sounded more conciliatory than previously, Xi did not rule out using military force to take Taiwan. In the past he has vowed not to cede "a single inch of our motherland," and increased military drills around the self-ruled and democratic island of 23 million people. Tsai rejected Xi's "one country, two systems" suggestion outright, and on Friday she emphasized that Taiwan's priorities in 2019 include protecting its democracy and safeguarding its sovereignty, in addition to improving people's livelihoods. She acknowledged the challenges ahead as Taiwan, whose economy is closely linked to that of China, tackles the fallout of the trade war between Washington and Beijing, as well as renewed fears of Xi's hardline stance. China and Taiwan -- officially the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China, respectively -- split in 1949 following the Communist victory on the mainland after a bloody civil war. They have been governed separately ever since although a shared cultural and linguistic heritage largely endures, with Mandarin the official language in both places.  Surgeries in Mexico linked to antibiotic-resistant infections in US, CDC says (CNN)Nearly a dozen Americans who had surgery in Tijuana, Mexico, have returned home with dangerous antibiotic-resistant infections, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Wednesday. All of the travelers diagnosed with the life-threatening bacteria, carbapenem-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa or CRPA, had undergone invasive medical procedures. "Infections caused by this particular drug-resistant Pseudomonas are rare in the United States and difficult to treat," the CDC said. Patients typically require long and "complex antibacterial drug combinations and courses" to defeat the infection. The CDC has confirmed 11 cases, said lead investigator Dr. David Ham, medical officer for the CDC's Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion. Nine occurred between August and November; a case from 2015 was retrospectively identified, and one case is still under investigation. Nearly half of the infected patients had undergone surgery at Grand View Hospital in Tijuana; the rest had undergone surgeries at other hospitals and clinics in the area. Ten of the procedures were weight-loss surgeries, Ham said. The CDC says the Mexican government has closed Grand View Hospital "until further notice," but the agency still suggests that travelers not have surgery there until the authorities have confirmed that the drug-resistant bacteria are no longer present. Medical tourism "Medical tourism," or traveling to another country for medical care, is a growing trend around the world. Between 11 million and 14 million people travel each year for medical care, according to industry estimates. Top destinations include Costa Rica, India, Israel, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey and the United States, according to Patients Beyond Borders, a guide to medical tourism. Many people are drawn by the potential for lower costs. The Medical Tourism Association, an international trade organization that acts as a liaison between patients and international providers, estimated the industry's worth at $100 billion in 2016-17. According to its latest survey of providers, about 72% of the patients who used medical tourism traveled for cancer, spine and other orthopedic treatments, followed by cosmetic and plastic surgery procedures, and cardiovascular and neurosurgeries. Over 50% of the surgeries cost between $10,000 and $50,000, while 16% were between $50,000 and $100,000, the survey said. Caution advised There are significant risks in traveling abroad for medical treatment, the CDC cautions. "Antibiotic resistance is a global problem, and resistant bacteria may be more common in other countries than in the United States," the agency warns. The CDC has a number of suggestions for anyone thinking about medical tourism, including researching the health care provider or surgeon, as well as the clinic or hospital. Choose internationally credentialed facilities, and be aware that standards for providers and clinics in other countries may be different than those in the United States.  The US-China tech war is getting worse. Apple is paying the price Paul Triolo is practice head and Kevin Allison is director in Eurasia Group's geo-technology practice. The opinions expressed in this commentary are their own.  Wall Street is still buzzing from Apple's announcement last week that sales of iPhones in China weakened sharply during the three months ending in December. Explaining the dip, Apple said the US-China trade war had weighed on consumers in the world's second-largest economy. Some pundits pointed to a broader economic slowdown in the country, while others highlighted the growing domestic competition that Apple faces in China from increasingly capable domestic suppliers like Huawei and Xiaomi. None of this is wrong, but it misses the deeper issue: US companies face a growing risk of being boxed out of the next wave of innovation in China. It starts with competition — not just in handsets, but in the semiconductors that power them. Unlike its major European rivals Ericsson and Nokia, Huawei has chosen to compete in the lucrative high-end smartphone market in China, devoting considerable effort to R&D and marketing. Huawei's secret weapon, HiSilicon — its semiconductor design arm — has begun designing dedicated smartphone chipsets that now give Huawei phones capabilities near or on par with the iPhone. Fabricated by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation (TSMC), Huawei's neural network processors and other custom chips have given the Chinese firm the ability to compete in terms of cost and features in a way that was unimaginable even two years ago. Then there is another critical factor: Chinese consumers slowing their purchases of the newest and greatest smartphones. Consumer taste is hard to measure, but arguably the biggest factor in slower upgrades for Apple is the advent of next-generation 5G mobile networks. Chinese handset makers — led by Huawei, but including second-tier players OnePlus, Xiaomi and OPPO — are all planning a 5G handset rollout in 2019. Apple, by contrast, is not likely to have a 5G handset until 2020. If you are a Chinese consumer, particularly on the high end, the last thing you want is to be left behind in 5G, which will offer data speeds of up to 100 times faster than current networks. Chinese Internet users basically live on their mobile devices and apps like WeChat. For these consumers, higher data rates and the cachet of 5G will increasingly drive decisions about which phone to purchase. Then there's the geopolitics: trade tensions, and more importantly, the broader US-China technology cold war. Last month's arrest of Huawei's CFO Meng Wanzhou in Canada at the behest of US authorities generated a flurry of headlines about Chinese companies urging employees to switch to Huawei from Apple or fining them if they refused. So far, the impact has been modest, but the blowback could intensify if Meng is taken to the United States in handcuffs, incarcerated, paraded in front of cameras or otherwise humiliated. Huawei will also likely be the target of further US government action, formally restricting the firm from selling its telecommunications equipment in the United States. Washington is pushing key US allies to do the same, raising new ire in Shenzhen and Beijing. Huawei has already been denied a deal with US carriers to promote its handsets in the United States. It would not be surprising to see questions surface on Chinese social media about why Apple should have a a deal with China Mobile to sell handsets while Chinese national champion Huawei is shut out of the US market and its CFO is humiliated by being placed under arrest. It's not all bad news. Western tech brands will continue to hold considerable cachet among China's increasingly internationally mobile elite. But the optimism Tim Cook and other global tech CEOs exhibited at the World Internet Conference in Wuzhen in December 2017 looks pretty misplaced right now. A heady mix of technology, political and market forces means Apple and other high-profile Western tech companies in China, such as Tesla, will need to protect their market niches while navigating increasingly complex geopolitical headwinds. It will not be easy.  Law firm that represented Russian interests part of mystery Mueller subpoena case Washington (CNN)One law firm involved in a foreign government-owned company's challenge of a mysterious grand jury subpoena related to the Robert Mueller investigation is Alston & Bird, CNN has learned, a firm that has previously represented Russian interests, including working for a Russian oligarch and a contractor of the Russian government. CNN's reporting of the law firm's identity is among the first details revealed about a case that's progressed to the Supreme Court under extreme secrecy. The identity of the foreign government and the company has been a closely held secret, and after several setbacks in court, the company may be forced to give the special counsel's office information or face a steep financial penalty. Attorneys involved in the case include DC-based white-collar lawyer Ted Kang and Brian Boone, a North Carolina-based appellate attorney. It is not clear whether they represent the company, the country's regulators or another interested party. Kang says on his professional website he represents "numerous entities and individuals in connection with" Mueller's investigation. He is also experienced in international work, listing among his past clients Korean and Australian companies. And Boone lists among his past clients the Republican National Committee regarding public records litigation. Kang, Boone and firm leadership have not responded to multiple inquiries from CNN over the past several months. The firm's involvement in the case gives a few clues to whom its client may be. Typically, large law firms like Alston & Bird represent masses of clients among their hundreds of partners. Only when a client allows it may a firm publicly acknowledge whom they represent. The Washington Post reported Tuesday night that the company is a foreign financial institution, citing two sources familiar with the case. Lawyers in closed-door hearings CNN first spotted the mystery court activity in September last year, when lawyers appeared in the courtroom for DC District Court Chief Judge Beryl Howell opposite five prosecutors from Mueller's team. At that time, one of the corporate lawyers told CNN he was from Alston & Bird and represented "a country." Another mystery court hearing before Howell happened in October, with Kang and Boone opposite Mueller's team, including top criminal appellate advocate Michael Dreeben. After the hearing, a CNN reporter approached Kang and Boone about their client but they declined to comment. Analysis: Unredacted Paul Manafort filing hints at collusion After Howell denied the company's challenge twice, the case then moved to the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Politico reported at that time that the appeals case related to Mueller's investigation. When the scheduled arguments happened in December before the three-judge appellate panel, court officials were so careful not to reveal the identities of the lawyers involved that they cleared the public and media from an entire floor of the DC federal courthouse. The company lost its challenge of the subpoena soon after. At that point, the DC Circuit judges were able to say that the subpoena sought information from a foreign state-owned company. They revealed little else about the case. The company then took its fight to the US Supreme Court. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court denied it would continue to freeze daily fines placed upon the company for noncompliance. The court also said the company could file its broader challenge of the subpoena and its legal reasoning with some details still confidential. If and when that filing comes in, it could identify the appellate lawyers involved on both sides. Alston & Bird Alston & Bird's history of working for Russians dates back to the early 2000s. The Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, a business contact of former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort whom Mueller's team has sought information about, paid Alston & Bird $300,000 upfront in 2003 to help him reinstate his US visa, according to public lobbying disclosure filings. Over the next few years, Deripaska paid the firm another $270,000 for their work, the filings say. Around that time, Deripaska gave Manafort a $10 million loan, which the FBI cited in a 2017 search warrant on Manafort. The law firm is one of the largest in the world by revenue and one of the US' 50 largest law firms, according to legal industry data. The firm operates only two international offices, in Beijing and Brussels. In a tense situation like the Mueller investigation, it's likely the firm's representation of the company and foreign state fall in line with past clients, so as not to pose ethical or business conflicts. Alston & Bird's most well-known employee is former Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, who has contributed to the firm's foreign and domestic lobbying business for years. The lobbying side of the firm works directly for two foreign governments, Kosovo and Taiwan, according to foreign lobbying disclosures. Mueller believes Manafort fed information to Russian with intel ties The firm has also had a lobbying team focus on reform of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act -- the same law at issue in the mystery company's grand jury challenge. It has also done work for global public relations firm Ketchum Inc., which hired it to "provide advisory services to Ketchum, Inc. for the Russian Federation." This included gathering information on contemporary US-Russia relations and monitoring "legislative developments in the Congress in similar issue areas," according to filings from 2014. For years, Ketchum helped the Kremlin and state entities like Gazprom with public relations campaigns intended to influence US public opinion and policy. CNN's Evan Perez, Em Steck and Sam Fossum contributed to this report. Astronaut: What China's moon landing means for US Dr. Leroy Chiao is the CEO and co-founder of OneOrbit LLC, a motivational, training and education company. He served as a NASA astronaut from 1990-2005 and flew four missions into space aboard three Space Shuttles and once as the copilot of a Russian Soyuz spacecraft to the International Space Station. On that flight, he served as the commander of Expedition 10, a six-and-a-half-month mission. Dr. Chiao has performed six spacewalks, in both US and Russian spacesuits, and has logged 229 days in space. In 2006, he was the first American allowed to visit the Astronaut Center of China in Beijing, where he first met Yang Liwei and Fei Junlong, the first two Chinese National astronauts. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN. (CNN)China started out the year by doing something that no nation has done before: It landed a spacecraft and an accompanying rover on the far side of the moon with an ambitious scientific payload package and an exciting mission ahead to study the interior structure of the moon with the help of ground-penetrating radar, among other things. Almost equally impressive from a technical standpoint, China successfully placed a communication relay satellite into a lunar halo orbit to enable the command of, and communication with, both the spacecraft and rover, which do not have line-of-sight views of Earth for direct radio contact. I had mixed feelings about these events. I was born in the United States, but my parents were both born in China, before they made their way to Taiwan and immigrated to America in the 1950s. On the one hand, I am proud of my heritage and what China has accomplished. On the other, my family is American, and we take pride in US accomplishments. And because the Apollo moon landing in 1969 was what inspired me to become an astronaut, I strongly believe the US can and should maintain a leading role in space exploration. China has surpassed all other nations with a new achievement. Though not exactly poised to take the United States' spot, China has fired a warning shot. The US must now step up its game to maintain its place as the leader. While China is preparing its space station, with plans to start sending parts up in 2020, America is planning to exit the International Space Station -- the collaborative effort of 15 nations -- in 2024-2025. According to an internal NASA document obtained by The Washington Post in early 2018, the plan is based on the unrealistic idea that we can transition management of the facility to a commercial entity. The ISS was never designed to be operated profitably. Mission control centers in Houston and Moscow must be permanently staffed to support it, and launch and landing costs would be prohibitive to any commercial entity. Meanwhile, China could land astronauts on the moon as early as the 2030s, leapfrogging NASA in their lunar capabilities. But perhaps the US should have seen this coming. In 1965, at the height of the Apollo program, NASA had 5.3% of the federal budget. Today, even though the budget is a slightly higher than it has been in recent years, it sits at around just 0.4%. With those measly funds, NASA's ambitions are inevitably limited. This doesn't seem likely to change, with the White House seemingly more intent on creating the so-called "Space Force," a new military branch, than investing in a real space exploration program. To be fair, we are still doing some amazing things in space. Very recently, the New Horizons spacecraft, after making groundbreaking discoveries and images of Pluto, went on to image Ultima Thule -- by far the most distant object ever imaged -- at about 4 billion miles from Earth. The OSIRIS REx spacecraft established orbit around the 500 meter-diameter asteroid Bennu, some 100 million km from Earth. It will bring back a sample of the asteroid for analysis. The Parker Solar Probe is performing ground-breaking measurements of our sun. The Mars InSight spacecraft just landed on Mars to do studies that have never been done before, like seismic studies. These great missions notwithstanding, our space program could be on the verge of being outdone. It is a classic case of the "Tortoise and the Hare." We have been so used to being on top for so long that our politicians have gotten complacent. Indeed, the failure to prioritize our space capabilities is nothing new. President Barack Obama proclaimed that America would go to Mars by the 2030s but did not sufficiently prioritize funding the program. Now we have come to the moment of China's ascendency in space exploration. We must face the reality that it has, in a small but significant way, shown the world that it can be the first to accomplish things in space, too. We had better realize this soon, or we may very well wake up to find that we are no longer top dog in the space business. And if we don't learn from our complacency in space, we could end up losing our edge in other areas as well. Correction: This piece originally misstated how far Bennu is from Earth. It has been updated to reflect the correct distance.  Scientology member killed in Sydney church stabbing (CNN)A boy aged 16 has been arrested after a member of the Church of Scientology was stabbed to death and another man injured outside its Australian headquarters in Sydney on Thursday, police have confirmed. The youth was being escorted off the premises by the two victims when he allegedly drew a kitchen knife and attacked them, stabbing one in the neck and slashing at the other man, CNN affiliate Seven News cited police as saying. It said police believe the teenager had been asked to leave the center due to a domestic incident on Wednesday. Both injured men were taken to the Royal North Shore Hospital but one of them, aged in his 20s, died there. The boy was detained at the scene, New South Wales police said in a report. The deceased victim was a member of the church, a Scientology spokesman confirmed to CNN. The facility, the Advanced Organization Saint Hill Scientology headquarters, is the church's Australasian headquarters. "This very unfortunate matter is in the hands of the police," spokesman Kei Sato said in a statement. "We cannot make any further comment beyond the fact that the victim was a beloved member of our church. The church is providing the police with any assistance needed in their investigation." Police were photographed taking evidence from the scene. Seven News reported that the deceased man was from Taiwan, which is Scientology's most targeted Asian center. There is a church in the southern city of Kaohsiung and 13 missions across the island. The sprawling, 145,000-square-foot center in the Sydney district of Chatswood offers "unbridled expansion of spiritual progress for Scientologists across Australia, New Zealand and Asia," according to its website. It was formerly the site of the National Acoustic Laboratory and was sold to the church in 2014 for a reported $37 million, according to CNN affiliate Nine News. Scientology was accorded the status of an official religion, which gives it tax exemption, in Australia in 1983.  Xi Jinping warns Taiwan independence is 'a dead end' Hong Kong (CNN)Xi Jinping called on Taiwan to reject independence and embrace "peaceful reunification" with China, in a conciliatory speech that nevertheless took a hard line on the self-governing island's political sovereignty and freedoms. The Chinese President's Wednesday address was a far cry from one he gave in March last year, in which he said "not a single inch of our land" could be ceded from China, adding the country was prepared to "fight the bloody battle against our enemies." By contrast, the latest speech -- marking 40 years since a key policy document opened the door for rapprochement between Beijing and Taipei -- was largely procedural, even outlining how a future system would respect Taiwanese people's "private assets, religions, beliefs and legitimate rights," as Xi attempted to portray the future unification of China and Taiwan as an inevitability. "Reunification is the historical trend and the right path, Taiwan independence is ... a dead end," he said. Taiwan has been de facto independent from mainland China since the end of the country's civil war in 1949 when the losing nationalist government fled to Taipei. China's Communist Party has always maintained that Taiwan is part of its territory and vowed to pursue reunification, vacillating between building economic and social ties with the island and threatening it militarily. Cross-strait tensions Xi's speech comes a day after Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen gave her own New Year's address, in which she called on Beijing to "face the reality of the existence of the Republic of China," referring to the island by its official name. She also urged that Beijing to "respect the commitment of the 23 million people of Taiwan to freedom and democracy." Tsai resigned as head of the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) in November after the historically pro-independence party suffered a crushing defeat in local government elections, which also saw voters reject a proposal for the island to compete in international sporting events as "Taiwan" rather than "Chinese Taipei," a moniker adopted after pressure from Beijing. While she acknowledged the elections were a "serious test for the current government," Tsai said the results "absolutely do not mean that grassroots public opinion in Taiwan favors abandoning our sovereignty, nor do they mean that the people want to make concessions regarding Taiwanese identity." She also pointed to allegations of Chinese influence over those elections, saying Beijing's "attempts to use the openness and freedom of our democratic system to interfere in Taiwan's internal politics and social development (have) now become Taiwan's greatest challenge." During his speech, Xi said China had "achieved a great victory in frustrating the Taiwan independence movement and other separatist activities." Lev Nachman, a Taiwan specialist and PhD student in Political Science at the University of California Irvine, said this appeared to be an oblique acknowledgment of interference in the island's politics. "I am not sure we are going to get a more clear direct admittance from Xi himself that the (Chinese Communist Party) interferes with Taiwan's democratic elections," he said. "This is something we have always known was a phenomenon, but never really had any 'hard proof'." Nachman said Xi's speech showed Beijing "now more than ever anticipates that Taiwan will naturally head towards a unification path." "If the CCP is confident it can stop the DPP from maintaining its status as the governing party and can even actively help restore the KMT to power, it has no need to use force," he added, referring to the pro-unification Kuomintang, which governed Taiwan for decades following the Chinese civil war. Hong Kong model Throughout his speech -- and those of other Chinese officials introducing him -- Xi pointed to "One Country, Two Systems" as the model for Taiwanese reunification. That is the principle by which Hong Kong transferred from British to Chinese sovereignty in 1997, maintaining the city's limited democracy, economic system and political freedoms under Chinese rule. For many years, Hong Kong was seen as a model for Taiwan, an advertisement for future reunification, and Xi's speech harkened back to this. "One Country, Two Systems was raised to accommodate Taiwan's reality and safeguard the interests and benefits of Taiwan compatriots ... under the precondition of ensuring national sovereignty and national security," Xi said. How attractive a model Hong Kong is to many in Taiwan is debatable, however, as recent years have seen Beijing renege on promises to expand democratic rights, and multiple prominent pro-democracy figures have been jailed, harassed and banned from standing for election. Political and press freedoms have also declined in the city. "Xi's call to Hong Kong as the One Country, Two Systems experiment I think shows what an ideal 'unification' looks like from Beijing's perspective: put Taiwan in a position that allows some autonomy still, but slowly erode it until it is retaken completely," Nachman said. "Xi would like Taiwanese people to see themselves as in the same position as Hong Kongers, which they do not." Speaking in Taipei Wednesday following Xi's speech, Tsai said the island would not accept a Hong Kong-style arrangement, and called on Beijing to respect Taiwan's political sovereignty. 'No promise to renounce force' While Xi's speech was conciliatory, emphasizing the need for "peaceful reunification" above all else, he did not rule out military force if Taiwan were to pursue de jure as well as its longtime de facto independence. "We are willing to create broad space for peaceful reunification, but will leave no room for any form of separatist activities," he said. "We make no promise to renounce the use of force and reserve the option of taking all necessary means," he said, adding that the "issue of Taiwan is part of China's domestic politics (and) foreign interference is intolerable." While it does not formally recognize Taiwan, the US maintains strong ties with Taipei, which have been bolstered under US President Donald Trump. In November, the US Navy sailed two ships through the Taiwan Strait, and Washington recently upgraded its de facto embassy in Taipei, the American Institute in Taiwan, to the tune of $255 million.  5 things to know for January 2: Shutdown, Paul Whelan, North Korea, tiny survivor (CNN) Today may be the first workday of the new year for most of us, but it's not too early to start daydreaming about vacation. Here are 19 places you can visit in 2019. And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here.) 1. Government shutdown President Trump is expected to meet with congressional leaders from both parties this afternoon at the White House to try to find a way to end the partial government shutdown. There have been no negotiations, much less compromise proposals, as of late. Both sides are pretty dug-in. Now, House Dems have a plan to re-open the government. They're due to vote tomorrow on a bipartisan package of six Senate spending bills and a stopgap measure to re-open the Department of Homeland Security at its current funding levels until February 8. The measure would keep the current $1.3 billion in border security money. That's a no-go for Trump, who wants $5 billion for a wall. There's also expected to be a briefing on border security at today's White House meeting, and an incident early New Year's Day on California's border with Mexico will surely come up. Border Patrol agents used tear gas and pepper spray on more than 100 migrants who tried to enter the country illegally. There's also a smelly incentive to end the shutdown. Trash and overflowing toilets are now a problem at national parks. Many have kept their gates open, but they're operating with much smaller staffs because of the shutdown. That means too few people to clean up and help maintain order. California's Joshua Tree National Park will close its campgrounds at noon today. 2. American detained in Russia An American arrested last week in Russia is no spy, his family says. Paul Whelan, a 48-year-old corporate security director from Michigan, was detained by the Russians and accused of spying. Whelan, who has been to Russia many times, was there for a wedding, his twin brother told CNN. If convicted of spying, Whelan could get 20 years in prison. His arrest comes just weeks after Russian Maria Butina pleaded guilty to trying to infiltrate GOP political circles and influence US relations with Russia before the 2016 election. A CNN national security analyst thinks the Russians may be planning to trade Whelan for Butina. 3. Houston shooting A simple weekend coffee run turned into tragedy for a family in Texas. A 7-year-old girl was shot in the head and killed in a drive-by shooting. Jazmine Barnes was in a car with her mother and three sisters when a red pickup truck suddenly pulled up. The man driving it opened fire in what police are calling an unprovoked shooting. "He intentionally killed my child for no reason," Jazmine's mother told reporters through tears as she recovers from her own gunshot wound at a hospital. Police are searching for the man and a motive. 4. North Korea A new year means New Year's greetings from world leaders. Last year, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un offered South Korea an olive branch in his New Year's address. That kicked off a year of summits and a promise by the North to get rid of its nukes. In this year's address, Kim said that's still the plan (though there's no evidence the North is actually doing it). But he warned the US the North may need to pursue "a new way" to peace on the Korean Peninsula if the Americans keep making "one-sided demands" and threatening more sanctions. Meanwhile, Chinese President Xi Jinping gave a New Year's address of his own and used it to caution Taiwan that independence is "a dead end." 5. Apartment explosion Rescuers searching the rubble of an apartment building that was leveled by a suspected gas explosion found a miracle: a baby boy still alive in the debris. Video from the Russian government showed rescuers saving the child, who was wearing a top and pink socks and covered in dust. At least eight people died in the blast Monday in the city of Magnitogorsk. It's estimated the infant endured 35 hours of freezing temperatures before being found. THIS JUST IN Train crash Several people were killed this morning in Denmark in a wreck involving two trains on the Great Belt Bridge. BREAKFAST BROWSE How to be a book worm Based on the resolutions you all shared with us yesterday, many of you want to read more books in 2019. You're in luck. We know just where you can start. Who wants to be a (mega)millionaire? If you bought a Mega Millions ticket in New York state, you might be a millionaire. That's where a winning ticket worth $425 million was sold. Black girl magic History was made on New Year's Day when 17 black female judges were sworn in together in Harris County, Texas. Patriotic sci-fi Get ready to spend the Fourth of July in the Upside Down. That's when the new season of "Stranger Things" starts streaming on Netflix. Long way from home NASA's New Horizons spacecraft traveled 4 billion miles to do a flyby of an object on the solar system's edge. Lucky for us, it took pictures. TODAY'S NUMBER 385 miles The length of the human chain that tens of thousands of women in India formed to protest a refusal to admit women to Sabarimala Temple, one of Hinduism's holiest sites. TODAY'S QUOTE "Netflix's claim to support artistic freedom means nothing if it bows to demands of government officials who believe in no freedom for their citizens." Human Rights Watch executive director Sarah Leah Whitson, slamming Netflix after the streaming giant pulled an episode of the comedy show "Patriot Act" that criticized the Saudis' account of Jamal Khashoggi's killing AND FINALLY I'm just gonna lie right here Trying to take a great wildlife photo and some elephant seals decide to use you as a pillow? Just a hazard of the job, we guess. (Click to view.) 
